Communication styles
=============================

These descriptions were taken from a section of :doc:`V. Gulenko's <gulenko>` article :doc:`Life Scenarios: From Ethical Feelings to Sensory Wishes <life_scenarios>`.

Passionate style: ExFx (SEE, IEE, ESE, EIE)
-------------------------------------------

Passionate communication style group is comprised of ethical extroverted
types: ENFp (IEE), ESFp (SEE), ENFj (EIE), and ESFj (ESE). This group is
most confident in their attitudes towards other people and not afraid to
openly show and talk of their feelings, likes and dislikes, and ethical
evaluations. These sociotypes are the most sociable ones in informal
contact.

Their position in a conversation is an active search for feelings. They
bring emotions to people around them. In their life scenarios, it is
typical of them to marry earlier on the average than individuals other
sociotypes. However, they also separate and divorce more frequently than
other sociotypes. These types understand dialogue as an exchange of
emotions, as a kind of "sailing" through active currents of life.

This group is designated as ER: their Ego blocks hold either ethics of
emotions E (Fe) as the first function, or ethics of relations R (Fi) as
the second function.

-  See also :doc:`Video Lectures: Passionate Love Scenario <gulenko_lectures>`


Cold-blooded style: IxTx (ILI, SLI, LII, LSI)
---------------------------------------------

Cold-blooded communication style group is comprised of logical
introverted types: INTp (ILI), ISTp (SLI), INTj (LII), and ISTj (LSI).
People of these types are not confident in their feelings and act
restrained in their emotional displays. These types are the least
sociable ones in informal contact.

Their communication style is opposite to the "Passionate" group. Their
position in an informal dialogue is a passive anticipation of feelings.
Communication of these types flows according to established courses and
norms. Their life scenarios suggest that they marry later in life than
representatives of other types and are not inclined to re-marry. Their
marriages, as a rule, are the least successful. They understand
communication as an exchange of lacking information of explanatory
nature. Such communication doesn't lose much if it is carried out only
in a written form.

This group is designated as LP: their Ego blocks contain either
structural logic L (Ti) as the first function, or business logic R (Te)
as the second function.

Business-inclined style: ExTx (LSE, LIE, SLE, ILE)
--------------------------------------------------

Business-inclined communication style group is comprised of logical
extroverted types: ENTj (LIE), ESTj (LSE), ESTp (SLE), and ENTp (ILE).
These types make contact with others over their activities and direct
emotions at their work and their engagements.

Their communication style can be called an active expectation of
feelings. Business-inclined sociotypes expect to meet their other half
in the whirlpool of their activities. The standard image of a typical
man prescribes him an active position in life, but not in the area of
feelings. In romantic literature, the hero gets acquainted with his
future beloved by rescuing her from troubles. These sociotypes interpret
communication as a business cooperation.

This group is designated as PL: their Ego blocks contain either business
logic R (Te) as the first function, or structural logic L (Ti) as the
second function.

Sincere/Soulful style: IxFx (EII, ESI, IEI, SEI)
------------------------------------------------

Sincere/Soulful communication style group is comprised of ethical
introverted types: INFp (IEI), ISFp (SEI), INFj (EII), and ISFj (ESI).

This position can be described as a passive search for feelings. Being
ethical, "Sincere" sociotypes confidently choose a partner who has
appealed to them, but as introverts, they express their openness to
relational contact by indirect signals. This is the kind of behavior
that is expected from a woman during the premarital period in
traditional societies. These sociotypes are most inclined to
"home-making" with stereotypical distribution of roles: man  as the
bread-winner and defender of the family, woman  as the guardian of the
family and nurturer of children. They understand communication as an
exchange of signs of soulful/heartfelt attachments.

This group is designated as RE: their Ego blocks contain either ethics
of relations R (Fi) as the first function, or ethics of emotion E (Fe)
as the second function.

Favorable communication scenarios
---------------------------------

4.1.

For analysis of intergroup relations, I will be relying on the
following, known to me through experience socionics observations and
consultations, tendencies in life:

-  Ethical type is instinctively drawn to logical type, and vice versa.
   The psychological atmosphere in a purely logical pair turns out to be
   too dry and boring, and in a purely ethical pair - very hectic and
   overloaded with emotions. Secondary in strength attraction is
   possible between two logical types if one of them has intensified
   emotionality, or between two ethical types if one of them possesses
   intensive logical inclinations.

-  Introvert is instinctively drawn to the extrovert, and vice versa,
   although the strength of this attraction and not as strong as in the
   first case. Extroverts win over, and introverts allow themselves to
   be won over. Peaceful coexistence of the two extroverts is possible
   only when they artificially divide their spheres of activity. Almost
   always, however, in such pair there arises a struggle for power, and
   the loser feels himself slighted. The union of two introverts may not
   be as unfavorable if one of them assumes the role of an active in the
   external world person. Without such special measure, this pair is
   practically destined to self-isolation.

4.2.

Conducting socionics consultations for harmonization of interpersonal
relations in a couple, it is recommended to consider the following
averaged scenarios of intertype dynamics.

1. "Business-like" (PL) and "Sincere" (RE) types.

   The successful combination of these two types of communication styles
   allows to achieve homeostasis  a self-sustaining state of
   equilibrium within the system and in its external interactions with
   the environment. In the event of internal disagreements between the
   partners, the "Business-like" partner, as an extrovert, actively
   influences the "Sincere" partner, who without much resistance yields
   to his influence. Due to "Sincere" partner's ability to smooth out
   the sharp edges equilibrium is restored. When this couple has
   conflicts with others people, the "Sincere" partner feels more upset,
   since he/she is an ethical type. However, due to introversion,
   "Sincere" partner simply presents the problem to the "Business-like"
   partner, who undertakes appropriate measures. As a result, this pair
   is stable against destructive external influences.

2. "Passionate" (ER) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   This is another good combination of types of communication, capable
   of providing natural self-regulation in a couple. This scenario
   unfolds as follows. In the event of internal conflicts in this pair,
   the "Passionate" partner begins to influence the "Cold-blooded"
   partner from the position of extroverted expansion in order to change
   his partner's behavior to his favor. However, the "Cold-blooded"
   partner, being little inclined to emotions, does not give in to these
   attempts. However, over time his behavior changes simply as a
   consequence of changes in his own assessment of the situation. The
   "Passionate" partner feels satisfaction from this, and by that time
   his ardor has already cooled down, and conflict naturally
   extinguishes itself. In the case of external aggression, the
   "Cold-blooded" type is inclined to ignore it and continue with his
   activities as if nothing has happened. This restrained position is
   very appealing to the "Passionate" partner, for it allows him to take
   care of the emerging ethical issues on his own.

The types of interactions described above contain, in generalized form,
4 intertype relations. The most successful combinations are dual pairs
LSE-EII, ILE-SEI, SLE-IEI, and LIE-ESI, followed by semi-dual,
supervision, and conflict relations. Even conflicting relations, when
partners gain certain safe distance, possess stability. In dual
relations, on the contrary, homeostasis is reached only at close
communicative distances.

4.3.

The following two kinds of relationships provide psychological
homeostasis only partially. Compatibility between them is of average
significance. Either internal disagreements or external destructive
influence can undermine these relations.

3. "Business-like" (PL) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   Events in this pair usually follow this scenario. Both partners in
   this pair are quite indifferent to ethical influences.
   "Business-like" partner tries to use "Cold-blooded" partner for his
   purposes, but his efforts don't lead to anything. Over time and after
   a series of unsuccessful attempts, the desire of "Business-like"
   partner to change situation to his own tastes fades, and partners
   start drifting apart. Internal equilibrium, nevertheless, is attained
   in this way. In relation to people around them, this pair turns out
   to be insensitive. Each is busy with something of his own. However,
   if external influences are so strong that they affect the
   low-activity ethical functions of partners, quarrels begin between
   them concerning how to respond. This impaired balance with the
   outside world for them is very difficult to restore.

4. "Passionate" (ER) and "Sincere" (RE) types.

   The particularities of adaptation to each other here are as follows.
   Each partner in this pair, being an ethical type, has a good sense
   and understanding that any conflict that arises between them has a
   very negative impact on life and activities of the other. However,
   only the "Sincere" partner will try to change his or her own
   behavior. The "Passionate" partner will only demand change in
   partner's behavior. Since the "Sincere" type will usually yield,
   peace will be recovered after a series of emotional outbursts. If
   this pair has conflicts with others around them, events immediately
   become dramatized. In this pair, there is an observable tendency to
   transfer any impairment in external relations to their own internal
   conflicts. Any discussion of external events can easily lead to a
   quarrel. The driving force of such a scenario - an excess of
   emotions. Equilibrium of this pair is thus unstable against internal
   differences.

Less than optimal scenarios
---------------------------

1. "Passionate" (ER) and "Business-like" (PL) types.

   This life scenario is perhaps the most dynamic and controversial one.
   Since both partners are extroverts, each partner tries to change the
   behavior of the other. Both are active and do not wish to adapt to
   the other. "Business-like" partner finds an outlet in an even greater
   amount of work and activities, while "Passionate" partner attempts to
   sort out their aggravating relations. Conflict becomes even more
   inflated due to this. In relations with people around them, both try
   to actively influence the outside world and begin to compete with
   each other for leadership. With this, the "Business-like" partner
   plays a more active role in these collisions, because he believes
   that the "Passionate" partner's lack of emotional restrained harms
   their common cause. This pair is quarrelsome: it is very difficult to
   achieve stability in it against both internal and external negative
   factors.

2. "Sincere" (RE) and "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   This life scenario is infused with internal contradictions and
   oscillations. Due to introversion, in the event of disagreements,
   each partner seeks to change primarily himself or herself. However,
   the response of "Sincere" partner comes quicker and is more
   noticeable. Thus, he begins to believe that he is sacrificing himself
   for the sake of peace in this relationship. "Cold-blooded" partner as
   if doesn't notice these peace-ensuring actions. An impression arises
   that he does not appreciate the sacrifices of the "Sincere" type.
   This creates tension in their relationship. At the same time, neither
   of them can change the surrounding them world towards a more
   favorable for them outcome due to their introversion. Therefore,
   external negative impacts on such a pair can easily destroy it. The
   more unstable in this respect turns out to be the "Sincere" partner,
   having sensitive perception of external sympathies and antipathies.
   Consequently, this pair does not have effective mechanisms for
   maintaining homeostasis.

3. Two "Business-like" (PL) types.

   Both seek to influence their partner for the sake of achieving their
   own goals, but both are also unreceptive towards such influences. As
   a result of this, brief but intense conflicts often break out in such
   a couple. Both attempt to influence people around them, but don't
   really know how to coordinate their actions. Each does everything for
   the purpose of turning the course of events in his favor.
   Compatibility improves only when both stand as a united front against
   an external competitor or opposition.

4. Two "Passionate" (ER) types.

   In such highly communicative pair petty accusations against each
   other cannot be avoided. Each will try to affect the other in an
   extroverted manner, but neither of them gives way. It will seem to
   both of these partners that the other does not understand them, so
   there will be a strong desire to sort out relations. However, any
   attempts to prove one's correctness to the other partner usually lead
   to nothing. Due to this, conflict does not fade for a long time. In
   contact with their environment, both compete in the emotional impact
   on it. Such a pair is easily made to quarrel, since the emotional
   excess in it must find an outlet. In the case of defending mutual
   interests against external encroachments the coordination of joint
   activities is complicated. Reaching equilibrium in communication for
   the long term in this pair is unrealistic.

5. Two "Sincere" (RE) types.

   Each partner in this pair will try in every way to avoid collisions.
   This stabilizes the couple as a whole. However, if a conflict between
   them does arise, its cause will be seen in the actions of the other
   partner. This reduces the degree of reciprocity in relations.
   Although this pair easily compromises, it is also touchy and lacking
   in honesty. External problems each partner tries to solve
   independently, without the help of the other, as each soon becomes
   convinced that prompting the other to extraverted actions doesn't
   lead to anything. The consequence of such a position - is mutual
   disappointment in the competitiveness of each other. However, the
   existence of a common acceptable goal or purpose can unite "Sincere"
   couple quite strongly. This goal should be in maintaining a warm
   psychological atmosphere and existing relations within the framework
   of significant to them micro-collective. For example, in raising
   children.

6. Two "Cold-blooded" (LP) types.

   Rather unfortunate life scenario due to lack of activity and
   emotional warmth. Each of the partners is insensitive to the efforts
   of the other and responds to his actions with much delay. Therefore,
   although this couple rarely conflicts, there is practically no
   positive cooperation between them. One partner leaves the other
   partner alone, and is content that he's not being bothered himself.
   Emerging conflicts fade rapidly, since no one "adds fuel to the
   fire". When external circumstances change, each partner tries to
   independently adapt to the changes. Help for each other turns out to
   be minimal. Due to this, an atmosphere of alienation arises in this
   pair. Uniting goal or purpose can improve compatibility in this pair,
   such as development of methods, procedures, schemes, instructions, or
   forecasts.

"Benefit" types are better suited for joint enterprises than identical
or business types. It has been observed that "benefactors" become pulled
to their "beneficiaries", hoping to find in them "contractors"
("executors") of their ideas and plans [4].


.. list-table:: Small Groups
    :header-rows: 0
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - :doc:`Quadras <quadra>`
      - :doc:`Alpha <alpha_quadra>`
      - :doc:`Beta <beta_quadra>`
      - :doc:`Gamma <gamma_quadra>`
      - :doc:`Delta <delta_quadra>`
    * - :doc:`Clubs <club>`
      - :doc:`Researchers <club_researchers>`
      - :doc:`Socials <club_socials>`
      - :doc:`Pragmatists <club_pragmatists>`
      - :doc:`Humanitarians <club_humanitarians>`
    * - :doc:`Temperaments <temperament>`
      - :doc:`EP <EP>`
      - :doc:`EJ <EJ>`
      - :doc:`IP <IP>`
      - :doc:`IJ <IJ>`
    * - :doc:`Communication Styles <communication_styles>`
      - Business-like
      - Passionate
      - Cold-blooded
      - Sincere
    * - :doc:`Romance Styles <romance_styles>`
      - :doc:`Aggressor <aggressor>`
      - :doc:`Victim <victim>`
      - :doc:`Caring <caring>`
      - :doc:`Childlike <childlike>`


