Duality Relations ISFp and ENTp by Stratiyevskaya
=======================================================

.. warning::
    This page or section **needs work**.

| Written by :doc:`Vera Stratievskaya <vera>`: `original blog
  entry <http://socionika-forever.blogspot.com/2007/07/1.html>`__.
| Automatic translation--needs further translation work.
| See also :doc:`Duality observations <dual_observations>`.


Communication on channels 1 - 5: Program functions Ne of ILE and Si of SEI
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Program function (function goals and objectives) of ILE, "intuition of
  possibilities", "intuition prospects."
| Don - Quixote - the ingenious inventor, tireless researcher, an
  optimist, a dreamer, a dreamer. Its mission - to generate ideas,
  develop projects, to open new horizons in science.

| Program of SEI - "sensory experiences".
| Dumas - down to earth realist, oriented to the most natural human
  values. Gorgeous family man, thrifty and economical. Its mission - to
  create for your Douala and "maturing" ideas most greenhouse
  conditions.

So Dumas can be not only the mastermind Don - Quixote, but great "to
cover his rear." As practice shows, hardly once in a dual environment of
comfort, Don - Quixote already beginning to generate ideas (ie their
right to engage in business) - ponders his future occupation, makes the
calculation of its future business, budget, etc.). For its part, adds
Don Dumas - Quixote as a great mediator in all cases. It presents the
flexible ethics and diplomatically sensitive "sensory experiences",
which allows a very good feel of the interlocutor.

Of course such coherence does not occur immediately - it takes time and
experience relationships to duals believe in each other, coordinated
their policy values, developed general guidelines common tastes ...

| - And tastes too? - Says Reader.
| - Do not forget that in this aspect of the dyad "sensory experiences"
  - "soft" value, and therefore is of great importance for both
  partners.

| For example, and Don - Quixote may be unhappy with the comfort that it
  creates Dumas: "She eternal blockages in the bathroom and in the
  kitchen ... And then, I do not like her cooking. "Herring under a fur
  coat," as far as I know, so do not do it. Anyway, my mom's cooking on
  - another ... "- here is an example of suggestibility Don. For him,
  the standard is what he used and what he brought. His tastes have been
  formed, they are important to him and to change them he was not going.
  - Well, it's the little things, you will think, "herring" ... And do
  not happen here any more serious complications for the programmatic
  aspect?
| - Cases. And here is an example. In young dual pair (he - Don, she -
  Dumas) had some problems: their sexual relationship is not something
  that went wrong - have become too monotonous ...
| - And sex - it is important, it is a manifestation aspect of sensory
  sensations ... programmatic aspects in this dyad.
| - ... It is not surprising that the young husband very quickly felt a
  touch uncomfortable, worried and began to think about how to fix
  things. (That is, the program began to adjust its duala.) Hearing that
  in such cases, sexologists recommend changing partner, he was carried
  away (inspire) this idea and tried to convince my wife to try this
  "therapeutic agent".
| - And his wife did not try to dissuade him?
| - I tried, but it came to nothing lead, so she decided to let the
  spouse requests. Besides, she was sure of myself and believed that
  sufficient control of the situation.
| - And how it went, "treatment"? - Ironically reader.
| - For the wife - is easy and painless: nothing new for yourself and
  she opened her tastes have not changed. But her husband with a random
  partner began a very complex and problematic relationship
  ("relationship sotszakaza"), of which he was its own is no longer
  extricate himself.
| - And it happens that Dumas inspired ideas and projects Don - Quixote?
| - Often, but not everything here depends on the "suggestion"
  (suggestion). It happens that some of his projects duala Dumas
  estimates as unrealistic. It already includes the evaluation function
  Dumas - structural logic. If the projects Don - Quixote (software
  feature - "intuition of possibilities and prospects" do not correspond
  to the actual conditions or refuted actual facts - Dumas do not
  believe them. And has every right - he is a realist. And that it
  balances romance and visionary Don - Quixote.



Communication on channels 2 - 6
-------------------------------

Relationships channel (2 - 6) (trial - realization function) Each dual
dyad "aligned" for very long. It depends on how well the program is
implemented and how it assesses partner. And since success here can
alternate with setbacks - changes accordingly "evaluation" partner
change and its relation to this aspect. Partner that is inspired, it
becomes inert. (By the way that "evaluation" function it is also the
"activation".)

| - And as Don Quixote Dumas assesses emotion? (An aspect of "ethics of
  emotions) After this aspect also lies on channel 2 - 6?
| - The channel (2 - 6), as already mentioned, formed the psychological
  distance partners. Therefore, emotionally aligned relationship is here
  for years, and especially in this dyad. Partners of alternate periods
  of emotional uplift, love with some periods of cooling and alienation.
  In addition, if Don - Quixote raising ethical issues, (and they
  usually start with the fact that it "puts" on the aspect of the
  "ethics of emotions" by inert - activation function), it loses the
  ability to control their behavior. Moreover, it may behave
  unpredictably: constantly annoyed by trifles, indulge in aggression;
  becomes overly frank, verbose and intrusive. And he is constantly
  experiencing a terrible embarrassment, remorse and shame. In such a
  situation it becomes absolutely necessary person capable of it
  patiently listen, understand, forgive, comfort, soothe, relax. And
  this is exactly what can perfectly handle his dual Dumas, provided
  that does not feel any emotional overload.

| - What's that?
| - Dumas by nature very calm and peaceful person. He is a very bad
  feeling in the atmosphere of hostility, stress and turmoil. Therefore,
  in a situation "with a random partner" wife was extremely difficult to
  listen to "confession" of her husband in all the intimate details. In
  addition, she was very afraid that this relationship can resume. In
  short, she had no way to create it in a good mood and emotional
  balance it. Not have the strength to implement its program.
| - But this story have a happy ending?
| - History "finished" again on an aspect of the disorder "sensory
  experiences" - all these experiences affected the health of his wife.
  It hurt a lot and for a long time, as a result of hormonal disorders
  very stout, so they were both not to sex - that is, they are back to
  the same problems.
| - But Dumas is in its nature an "artist in love," why they had
  problems on the program function?
| - Sexual problems in the couple began after their relationship went
  wrong channel (3 -7) and (4 - 8). And here's the kind of history:



Communication on channels 3 - 7 and 4 - 8
-----------------------------------------

When - is hardly acquainted, this young couple very quickly and easily
dualized. Already on the second day of dating they decided to get
married. The first few years they have all been good, they lived
peacefully and happily. All of them turned out, all problems were solved
easily and successfully. In the short time they bought an apartment, a
car, had a baby, her husband succeeded in business - that is, everything
was wonderful. But one day the situation has changed dramatically: they
moved to permanent residence close relatives of her husband. Total
number - four. And one and all - representatives of the second quadra.

| - And what's wrong with that?
| - And the fact that the "second squared", she did not "moved" - it is
  implemented to overcome the resistance of the environment. Also, do
  not accidentally second quadrupole called "quadra violent bestow
  happiness" - they always impose their recipe "Family Happiness," which
  is sometimes reduced to the commandment: "let the wife fear her
  husband." That's really it does not fit into the peaceful, dual
  relationship of our heroes, where all based on equality, mutual
  respect and love. Thus, in their quiet and cozy, "pervokvadrovy"
  microcosm broke "vortices hostile" second quadra, with its cruel laws
  and authoritarian values.
| - And how it affected our dual pair?
| - And here's how: what passed - and while young husband to please
  parents began to "play the role of" husband - a tyrant. And this role
  is very carried away.
| - That is, the beginning of "excesses" in his "role-aspect" aspect to
  "strong-willed sensory" ...
| - ... He became the wife defiantly slight, overwork, and she has, of
  course, was not up to the "Arts" in bed. Worse, in their home started
  "willful" distribution of responsibilities: "You have to do what you
  have to do it." That is, in their dual pair established a completely
  unnatural relationship, the nature of Don nasty - Quixote. Normal,
  oriented to their natural values ??Don - Quixote in principle does not
  accept this division of responsibilities - in his opinion, everyone
  has the right to do what he wants, what can and what it sees fit. And
  what usually happens in a harmonious dual dyads, but here the harmony
  was broken.
| - What happened?
| - Discord on its normative aspect was reflected on her role function
  (Channel 3 -7 aspect "intuition of time"), its troubled question of
  how long will this demonstrative tyranny? And how does this affect her
  relationship with her husband? Here's a "forecast" it became "request"
  for the future (and who is, and respond to it as not Don - Quixote!),
  A perennial plant conversation on the topic: "What will happen to us?"
  But received no reply - position them both seemed hopeless. Her
  husband, moreover, he considered disadvantageous to part with their
  relatives, and yet afraid to offend them (Don ethical problems -
  Quixote combined with demonstrative pragmatism (Channel 4 - 8).
  Relatives on the contrary - to feel themselves masters of the
  situation, began to actively intriguing tune young against each other.
| - And what is the end of it?
| - One day, my husband came home from work found no wife, no child, but
  found a note on the table, in which he was asked to either find a way
  to part with their relatives or to seek another wife.
| That same evening, held an emergency meeting in the kitchen. Relatives
  realized that their "game" went too far, husband realized that strayed
  too far from their natural values. In short, during the day was found
  apartment for relatives, and everything fell into place. Wife returned
  to her husband, but in their relationship there was some estrangement
  ... - Which led to the disorder of their sexual relationship ...
| - If only the fact that they were sleeping under different blankets
  (remembered as the young wife, it started with this disorder in their
  relationship - and the sexual and ethical ...)
| - And this is essential!
| - And how! Especially for duals. Because in this case the broken ties
  bioenergetic the vital level, which is particularly dangerous. On the
  mental level in duals can be all sorts of differences, but if we want
  to save the relationship, not destroy them, it must be vital soldered.
  And it needs to constantly feel physically intimate partner,
  especially during sleep, especially when the subconscious liberated.
| - It turns out that double blanket - this medicine number 1.
| - For duals - yes. And it is this "medicine" and was "spelled" Don -
  Quixote in order to bring it under the influence of "random partner."
  Physical intimacy Duala, his vital field - proved the best remedy for
  this.
| - And why - the same dual partner so weak willed resisted pressure
  from her husband? Indeed, in this pair she is the sensation, so where
  is her willpower, where is it will sensorics?
| - Her "volitional sensing" in their positions - the positions of
  inert, analytical, supervisory functions, which is also located at the
  ID - at the level of "reckless self-sacrifice."
| - That is, its task is to "watch" and "sacrifice" themselves?
| - Up to a certain point. Observation "will sensorics" Dumas is not
  designed for serious battles too - it's not her mode. It is designed
  for a maximum to divert "sparkle" Don - Quixote of the "war on
  windmills." And here it happened that Don Quixote fought with his
  dualom at least was with him "on opposite sides" that quite worthless.
| - And how do you explain the fact that "Don" so "played in the
  afternoon" in its role function? Than he is so fond of the mask
  "despot." After all, his strong-willed efforts are usually directed to
  the good and noble deeds.
| - If Don - Quixote gets education in the second quadra it "will
  sensorics" except that becomes negative, (different aggressiveness,
  authoritarianism), and it exacerbates the ethical issues it becomes
  almost the highest value, competes with its program intuition. In this
  case, "Don", as it were accumulating "subtype" or Maxim Zhukov. Such
  "Don - Quixote" is more appropriate and "Dumas", brought up in the
  same conditions and on the same values ??- that is a very strong,
  powerful and strong-willed partner. And although Dumas is not the most
  attractive quality - but you never know where, to whom and under what
  conditions is useful that you believe is your fault. Want an example?
| - Of course!
| - One no longer young and very unlucky "Don Quixote" ("to the type" -
  "Yesenin"), after many failures in his personal life meets a
  twenty-girl "Dumas" very highly developed sensory volitional
  ("subtype" - "Zhukov" ). And imagine, quickly and conveniently with
  her Dualizing. (Coincidence "subtypes": "Zhukov" and "Yesenin" - also
  duals). A week after meeting they begin to live together; he stops
  drinking, establishes life, gets a job - in short, all of them well.
  And most importantly - their dual relationship stabilized surprisingly
  fast: it took only two months, but he already feels calm, balanced,
  peaceful - in short, dualized. Girl holding it in the "rod of iron",
  but imagine it like it (though, of course, he is a little afraid of
  her.) But at least she had good discipline and he to her for that.
  Cherishes his relationship with her.

| - But Don - Quixote - it is usually highly intelligent, erudite
  people, and by your example of why - it is not clear ...
| - Very well, here's another example of dualization: husband - Don -
  Quixote, intellectual, scholar; wife - Dumas, beautiful, confident
  woman, athlete (hobby - karate); two children. But the family idyll
  they lasted only eleven years ...
| - Well, it's a lot, but what then?
| - And then the happy husband was involved in what - that religious
  sect - just became involved, of curiosity. (From Don - Quixote it
  happens - the software "intuition of possibilities" often leads to
  their religiosity, thinking about making any irrational and anomalous
  phenomena.) Wife, accustomed to respect intellectual interests of her
  husband, his new interests perceived quietly, but when this passion
  began to take pathological - cringed. When he tried to involve
  children in the sect - actively protested and even used force. (As
  told by her coach karate for her one stroke put three men - a piece of
  cake.) When her husband brought home a bottle of poison and announced
  that it was time to prepare the children to move into the "better
  world", she decided to further him living dangerously, took her
  children and divorced immediately.
| - And she was not sorry to destroy the family, break a relationship
  with him? after all - still duals?
| - Especially her act deserves respect! After all, it makes the most
  overriding values ??- children's lives. For Dumas, there can be
  nothing more valuable.
| - But it has survived at least friendly relations with the former
  spouse, or he was moved to a "better world"?
| - The former spouse is alive and well, and the relationship they have
  - so-so. Anyway, child support, he refuses to pay.
| - And what he is motivated?
| - However, it is not his children, and "God's", so let God take care
  of them and - typical bravado and vindictiveness offended Don -
  Quixote, combined with pragmatism and logical demonstrative
  resourcefulness.
| - But maybe he was not going to slack off? And just trying to impress?
| - "Sparkle on" volitional sensorike ", you mean? Possible. Don -
  Quixote extravagance peculiar behavior, but at least now he knows what
  you have to pay for the minute posturing. In addition, normal,
  oriented to their natural values ??Don - Quixote knows that you can
  play anything but not the lives of their children.
| - And this passion delusions that stupid stubbornness, how to
  understand?
| - It's okay. Don - Quixote obliged to defend their ideas, and who will
  do it for him? If only ideas deserved ...
| - And the fact that he was so unethical cost-friendly? ...
| - Average manifestation problematic don - kihotovskoy ethics. Just in
  this situation, he felt very uncomfortable, because no ethical support
  from the partner is not received.
| (Otherwise, it could not be - too deep were hurt its interests ...

| - And, by the way, what is shown here support duals on mobilization
  aspects? This channel of communication we have not yet considered ...
  (refers to a channel (4 - 8), aspects of "the ethics of relations" at
  the Don and the "business logic" Dumas.)
| - Demonstrative compassion and peacefulness Dumas, his ability to give
  a soft and sincere tone of any conversation, his touching care and
  boundless love for children - this is what sets Don - Quixote on the
  most benevolent way. And although Don - Quixote and some peculiar
  "prickliness" and "aggressive" - ??yet he adopts a friendly tone Dumas
  becomes kinder, more tolerant and more delicate, lighter and
  communicate freely surf the complex ethical situations.

At the same time, and takes over from Don Dumas - Quixote necessary
business skills: bolder displays business initiative, shows ingenuity,
inventiveness, achieves high results in their work. Dumas is always
proud of their labor achievements, but no matter how others evaluate his
work, the main praise, support and encouragement he expects to recover
it from your co-player. It is very important for him.

| - And he gets it?
| - If the relationship develop peacefully and safely, if Don - Quixote
  no significant claims for touch and ethical issues, and then about his
  successes partner responds with great respect. ("Here, it is now
  promoted to the post, a separate study identified may soon salary
  increase. Have it done!"). But if you still brewing what - that claim
  (and they are usually expressed in the form of nitpicking) dualu
  recollected all his flaws as an aspect of the business logic: and his
  "worthlessness" and sluggishness, and the desire to shirk hard work
  and fear of physical overload: "It seems that it is more than all the
  works, it is more than all the complains of fatigue. Although, I do
  not see where it recycles it ... "(His wife works two jobs, pulling a
  half rate, fumbling with toddler and he does not" see "where she was
  so tired. Incidentally, these claims were presented again same spouse
  sexually satisfied: "She complains that she is tired and she at me,
  you see, is not strong enough! ..")

| - Surely it said Don - Quixote, very serious quarrel with his wife ...
| - ... And maybe so, against the advice, he had a desire to get more of
  her work. To which she immediately responded demonstrative aggravation
  of relations: know, they say that you are offended. In response to her
  grievance, he further tightened its requirements. (That is, on the
  aspects of the problem "volitional sensing" and "ethics of relations"
  ... And this is exacerbated by all aspects of the level of the
  superego - the most painful for Don - Quixote.)
| - And what is the solution? - Worried reader. - How are they now?
| - Now it all depends on will the Dumas defending their positions and
  sensory and ethically will the strong-willed to resist the pressure of
  Douala will the smooth the conflict ... In my opinion, should not be
  taken seriously for a caricature of "tyranny" Don - Quixote-fact it's
  just a "game".
| - But maybe if Don - Quixote - woman and Dumas - man dualization
  proceeds more safely? By the way, who in this case has to deal with
  the economy?

| - Who wants to, he is engaged. As in any irrational dual pair there is
  no strict separation of duties.
| Needless to say, the girls - Don - Quixote is not peculiar to prepare
  yourself Housewives: "Not for seven years I studied at the university,
  to the whim of what - what idiot life stand at the stove! .." - Said
  one of the representatives of this sociotypes. Incidentally this is a
  charming and well-educated woman, thinking about marriage has always
  represented at the stove with her future husband, (herself she had
  only seen on the computer.) After numerous attempts to find your ideal
  in Russia, it spread to the Western Hemisphere, where nearly married
  an American. Fortunately, just making out that she awaits the fate
  again Housewives, she terminated the engagement, returned to the groom
  a ring with diamonds and returned home. Here she went to a
  psychologist to clarify what was happening to her: "Either with me
  that - something is wrong, or the terms of some idiots, I do not
  understand ..."

| - What is there to understand? normal girl! She just has not had the
  opportunity to meet her co-player ... And it's really a problem for
  women Don - Quixote?
| - Recall aspect "sensory experiences" is in their position suggestive
  function (at the "absolute weakness"). That is, this is the aspect of
  that person tries to immediately exclude yourself (because it is an
  area of ??"headache"). Not surprisingly, the girl from a young age
  worried as she would in the future be saved from what she most hated!
  (This is understandable, who wants to implement a program of its
  duala?).

| On the other hand, Dumas his program also will not go anywhere. And
  while he lives with anyone - even for someone - then it will give
  pleasure, arranging for a loved one small "touch holidays" ...
| - So the only thing you need to worry about the girls Don - Quixote -
  so it's a marriage with dualom ...
| ... Noticed that when Dumas is the head of the family aspect "sensory
  experiences" in the family becomes an integral value. Example - one of
  our family talantleveyshih fashion designer Valentin Yudashkin
  (Dumas). His wife - Don - Quixote - Beautiful woman fashion model in
  the past very successfully runs the house. (At least his wife - dualu
  like her cooking.) The house cult aesthetics. Daughter - fully
  developed child; favorite activity - drawing ...
| - Who is she sotsiotipy?
| - Also Dumas (ie, the ideal - a perfect psychological compatibility
  with both parents).
| - So in all respects a happy and harmonious family ...
| - And God forbid that has always been so! Another example: a family of
  artists Alexander Kalyagina ("Dumas") and Eugenia Glushenko ("Don") -
  also dual happy marriage, three children, a successful professional
  career both spouses ...
| - A possible option is whether a large age difference?
| - Possible. And here's an example: husband - Dumas, older than his
  wife of 25 years. (He - 48, she was - 23 dual marriage) ...
| - And she looks happy?
| - More than he wears it on his hands, (in the literal sense of the
  word), makes her breakfast in bed ...
| - So my husband and running, and he is engaged in a kitchen?
| - And why not? And if the wife "and work, and a kitchen doing"? In
  addition, to the family, we're talking about cooking - it is part of
  their overall "love game", it is their "ritual", the traditional rite.
  Therefore, both spouses are involved here: the husband - prepares wife
  - and tastes inspired by his presence. Romantic names invented dishes:
  salad "Desire," pudding "Tenderness" - or what - something like that
  ... Here's a family idyll ...
| - And another question: who in this dual pair takes the initiative
  when dating? Who was the first reduces the distance?
| - It is believed that the first inclined to be proactive ethics -
  sensing. (Combination of "ethical initiatives" - "partner selection"
  and "sensory initiatives" - "capture" partner "). But in my opinion it
  depends on how the person is aware of his program and how he wants to
  implement it. Don - Quixote can easily reduce the distance because he
  is interested in people and pretty. Also, if Don decides to start a
  family as soon as possible, he does this in order to reliably "to
  cover their rears" and be free to intellectual creativity - that is,
  again, in the interests of their program.

Dumas sees its program to create a harmonious family with a loved one,
take care of it and raise his children. So no matter who the first one
to work - can come to Don Dumas and tell that - something interesting,
or Dumas can first go and treat than Don - lint, the main thing - it's a
coincidence attitude and value for interaction. For irrational dyads are
primary conditions dualization. Then comes the "grinding" on rational
aspects - that is, shall be verified convergence of views, attitudes and
principles, as it already does all life.
