ESE by Stratiyevskaya
===========================

By :doc:`Vera Stratievskaya <vera>`, Reference: `Socionics from Stratievskaya <http://socionika-forever.blogspot.com/>`_.

Return to type description :doc:`main page <ESE>`



Ego block
------------------

1st Function - Fe Fe Extraverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Turbulent emotions on the background of strong volitional pressuring, "volitional emotionalism" and "emotional willpower" - this is descriptive of representatives this type.

.. note::
    Editor's note: This turbulence is in part conditioned by ESE's particular form of thinking.

The ESE - is always strong emotions, always vividly expressed emotional character. ESE's emotions quickly turn into a passionate desire - a passionate love or a passionate hate. The ESE is rarely seen in a calm and balanced state. Usually he calms down and relaxes only in interaction with his dual, the LII, when an emotional, sensory, and intuitive exchange of certain nature happens between them. ESE's natural emotional state - is a somewhat elevated mood, a pleasant elation, a moderate state of excitement with a charge of energy, optimism, and confidence in himself.

Boisterous manifestations of emotions are characteristic of the ESE. Where representatives of this type appear an "emotional interchange" begins, "the cycle of emotions in nature". The ESE dislikes states of low emotionality. An environment where people don't communicate, don't talk, don't express how they feel and their view points, is not for him - in such environment the ESE cannot understand what other people have on their mind, what concerns them, by what values they live their lives. ("He brought me to a health resort and dropped me off there. But what was there to do for me?! There nobody talked to each other. People only associated with their families and friends. When he returned I asked him: Where did you bring me?!! Here no one talked with me! How is it possible to rest like this?!!")

The ESE - is a person of strong and bright temperament. It is not incidental that the roles played by actors of this type often come to be interesting, bright, and unforgettable characters. The episodes and scenes with participation of an actor-ESE are an adornment of any play and the "raisin" of any film. ESE's emotions frequently develop at a very rapid pace - as a kind of bright firework or vivid waterfall. For this reason, the ESE finds it easier to play a role or a scene with rapid contrasting emotions rather than of gradual sequential emotional development of the image. (Although many of them play the central roles magnificently.)

The ESE is capable of figuring out the nature of the person precisely through the emotions expressed by this person. This makes it possible for the ESE to be an excellent psychologist: to accurately evaluate the emotional state of a person and sympathize deeply with him or her, going through all their emotions as if one's own. ESE's ethical insight is built on his ability to understand the motives of the behavior of people around him through the emotions that are expressed by them. The nature of a person's intentions the ESE understands magnificently well from the expression of his eyes and according to the nature of his smile. The ESE is adept at seeing in people their nature and their ethical potential.

The ESE is oriented at the most natural of life's values: happiness, health of his children, prosperity of his close ones, creative realization of his personal capabilities and talents, freedom of views and judgments, peace and the prosperity of people around him. And it is precisely these values, ideas, and views that the ESE is ready to defend always and everywhere, not sparing efforts or time, with entire flame and heat of his deeply emotional soul.

The ESE does not consider it necessary to hide his emotions and his desires: he expresses both very naturally and from best motives, so is there anything bad in this? Everything good or bad that has happened to him becomes immediately known to the people around. The ESE generously shares both the his joy and happiness and that which is troubling him.

The ESE panically fears troubles (indeed, life is created for happiness and enjoyment, and it is so short!). He very actively and very emotionally does not wish any trouble for himself. The ESE avoids associating with people who create problems for themselves (which could also mean him). He renounces having to do anything with such persons and warns others about them, moreover, he does this in a very emotional form: "If I would ever have to do anything with him again!..." If troubles nevertheless visit the ESE, he does not consider it necessary to hide them: indeed it is necessary to somehow draw attention to one's problems! The ESE gives freedom of expression to negative emotions before any positive ones. It is crucial to him to use any methods necessary to quickly resolve the issue. But he would rather demonstrate his weakness to a complete stranger than to the real culprit of his misfortunes.

It happens that a minor change in the conditions of ESE's life is perceived by him as a major and unpleasant problem and creates a situation of panicky, hysterical fuss. This behavior is rarely met with understanding from other people - that which from the side is taken as an insignificant and inessential change, within the framework of ESE's values is seen as a substantial change for the worse, which over time can possibly pour out into some difficult-to-solve problem. The ESE panically fears any negative tendencies both in his personal life and in his surrounding environment. Therefore the ESE is often socially and politically active. He tries to maximally use his civil liberties and rights to make his life and the surrounding society peaceful and prosperous.

The ESE from dawn to dusk can talk about his problems, but he does not tolerate when someone else complains about his life. He dislikes listening to stories about someone else's troubles, especially, if they are told by complete strangers, whom he doesn't know and cannot help with anything. And will it help anyone if he is now in a depressed mood? Usually the ESE doesn't show much interest in the problems of unfamiliar to him people: he doesn't want to spoil his own mood and doesn't want to get entangled into their problems.

Conversely, the ESE is always very much interested in causes of elevated mood of people around him. ("If happiness has come to someone, then let him tell of it - maybe I'll get lucky, too!") The ESE loves to raise the mood of anyone who in his opinion needs it. He often says or does something with the sole purpose of improving the mood and state of others. For example, he can, after arriving at work, solemnly declare that he is preparing gifts for all his female colleagues for the 8th of March (International Women's Day) - that he is sewing them each a handkerchief, and that they are already even cut out. This does not mean that his colleagues will some time see these gifts. The important thing here is something different - to raise their moods, to create a pleasant environment of a celebration, to create conditions for positive relationships between people, to receive everyone's positive consideration and approval, to become the hero of the day at least in that instance. But most importantly - to create a positive uplifting mood, and about the gifts everyone may forget later. (The ESE dislikes it if he's reminded of his unfulfilled promises, for he doesn't always make these promises to actually fulfill them.)

2nd Function - Si Si Introverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Emotional activity of ESFj finds an expression in his ability to make people around him happy, to take care of them, to be their guardian, to create an environment of warmth, well-being, and prosperity for them.

In cordiality, hospitality, the skill to host guests, and to organize some pastimes or a dinner the ESFj has no equal. The get-togethers organized by an ESFj always reflect the entire flame of his soul, all his happiness due to spending time with his friends. No one else can compete with the ESFj in the skill of creating an atmosphere of a holiday in conditions of drab, mundane workdays. The ESE can, for example, bring to work an enormous quantity of treats, like boxes of cookies and donuts, and arrange a small celebration for his colleagues - for no particular reason, simply because. The celebrations and parties at work don't even need to be mentioned: the ESFj is often one of those who actively organizes them, moreover, he gladly takes the largest share of work onto himself. A holiday for the ESE - is a holy matter. It is not possible to imagine a better organizer of holidays, parties, and celebrations than an ESE. In the shortest time possible the ESFj can makes all arrangements for all guests. At home, he makes the preparations and cooks the necessary food very quickly - try to keep up with washing dishes!

The ESFj loves to treat his guests or people close to him to something. If there are no guests - then his neighbors. The ESE loves to communicate and to speak with people, and, especially in old age, he may pay visits to his neighbors with a can of jam or a box of candies, sometimes of his own making, and sit over a cup of tea with them.

.. note::
    Editor's note: Paying visits to friends and neighbors and drinking tea is a wide-spread social pastime in Eastern European countries, particularly among people of mature age. Substitute for another culturally relevant socially oriented pastime as needed.

The ESFj usually enjoy making food in order to treat someone. Paying a visit to his home, one can watch as he is making food and saying: "Oy, this will be so tasty! Mmm. This will be something!" And indeed, something tasty comes out of it. If representatives of this type have an interest in food preparation, they often make for great culinary artists and cooks, despite their actual profession or career. And if the ESFj chooses to get training as a professional cook, then being his guest - is a special pleasure that may be remembered for the entire life.

The questions of provision - is a theme that preoccupies the ESFj the most, especially when it comes to his children and his family members. If a representative of this type learns that somebody is not well provided for, then he will emotionally express himself on this issue.

The ESFj is typically confident in his aesthetic tastes and opinions. He knows this about himself and considers this to be his strong quality. For each person, he could choose a complimentary clothing set, make-up, and hair style, which would correspond to his appearance and his character. Even some of the other sensing types (not to mention intuitives) should take ESE's suggestions into consideration. Some representatives of this type make for excellent stylists and designers.

.. note::
    Editor's note: This is more accurate for the sensory subtype, Si-ESE. However, confidence and strong opinions don't necessarily translate into talent, not to mention that different quadra and dual pairs have their own sense of what is attractive and in good taste.

As a consultant on the theme of aesthetics the ESFj is beyond competition: "I have asked my co-worker (ESE) to help me pick a new wardrobe. It was amazing! Within an hour we went through five stores. Wherever we appeared, the clothes simply started to fly across the store: "Give us this sweater, and that scarf, and that hat, please!" Everything was picked without trying on the clothes, simply by the eye, yet when I came home and tried it on - everything fit me so well! Within an hour she dressed me from head to toes."

His own wardrobe the ESFj changes constantly. He gets quickly bored by what he has already purchased. If the ESE knows how to sew, he or she will be often remaking, altering, and changing something. The ESFj often changes something about his clothes and his hairstyle. Before going to work, a woman ESE can in a minute change a dress for a blouse, re-style her hair or dye it into another color - all of this because yesterday's look and hair don't correspond to today's mood.

The ESFj also likes to change the interior of his house. Frequently renews the furniture, often repositions it. There are often some new cases, portieres, and home-made lampshades around. Paying a visit to his friends or familiar people, the ESFj may out of his personal initiative change the interior of their home or apartment. In contrast to the ISFp (SEI), when the ESFj sees some aesthetic imperfections, he feels himself obliged to bring it up for conversation. The closer his relations with another person, the more actively the ESE makes these remarks: "These pants need to get shortened!", "This is not the place for this table!", "You need to fix your hair!" The ESE doesn't make these remarks because he is rude and unceremonious: simply he is very sensitive to any manifestations of disharmony, which always irritates him to the point that he cannot endure. The ESE simply has to pay attention to this, even if nobody has asked about it, he cannot keep silent.

The ESFj loves giving gifts. He may spend his last money on buying something for a seemingly unrelated to him person. He may make presents without a reason or an occasion. Sometimes - just like that, in a moment of soulful inspiration, and sometimes simply because the ESE has ran across some item that he thought would be complimentary to a close person: "Here, I bought you new red lipstick. And the old yellow one, throw it away, so that I don't have to see it again."

The ESFj is typically aware of the latest statements in fashion. His home might be literally covered with fashion catalogs, but his own style is typically outside of fashion and sufficiently personal.

The ESFj becomes exceptionally active when matters concern the health of his loved ones. He storms the offices of doctors, takes off from work to run to the pharmacy, "pushes through" to get admitted to see the most renowned medical specialists. All of his colleagues, friends, and familiars regularly listen to stories about the state of health of his sick relative. The ESE literally attacks the sickness, since he always fears that it will persist for too long, and then turn chronic or give rise to complications. ESE's activity subsides only when noticeable improvements begin in the state of the sick person.

However, the ESFj pays little attention to his own state of health. He rarely complains about poor health, generally dislikes presenting himself as weak and incapable, and in case of sickness will try to manage it on his own. The ESE tries to get by on preventative measures: takes up sport, tracks his nutrition, tries various diets. Many women of this type retain a youthful look and their attractiveness into an old age.

Super-ego block
------------------------

3rd Function - Te Extraverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type are not distinguished by outstanding pragmatic and business-like qualities, no matter how much they try to develop such qualities in themselves. This is explained by the fact that ESFj's actions are first and foremost subordinated to his feelings, states, and desires. The ESFj makes excessive expenditures of money precisely when he or she falls under the effect of a minute desire or an emotional impulse.

.. note::
    Translator's note: An example of this: When an ESFj was visiting the country where her father had lived and died, and came to see his grave during her travels, she spent half the money she had at that time to order a monument stone to be placed at his gravesite - an expenditure done from an emotional impulse, for which she was later criticized by her ISFp daughter who saw no sense in this and viewed it as money wasted.

If the ESFj encounters some fresh and appetizing product at the store, he buys it in large quantities (what if one will want to eat some more of it later). The ESFj cooks food almost on daily basis, moreover, often preparing large quantities of it (what if an additional portion will be needed). To food prepared day before the interest is already lost. The ESE is a large specialist of "renovation of food", which is often the object of his or her special pride: "We had some cooked meat remaining from yesterday. So today I ground it and used it as a stuffing for pancakes. Not to toss it out after all!"

Very many of ESFj's purchases are made precisely "under the mood": "I saw this dress and fell in love with it! Then I couldn't do anything but purchase it!" Then, when the "mood" passes, the ESE will try to return these purchases to the store. If the return date has already passed or this is impossible to do for another reason, the ESE may attempt to re-sell it to someone else or give it as a present. If this doesn't happen and he still cannot get rid of the unsuccessful purchase, the ESE will alter it into something "worthwhile" before finally throwing it out.

Money, in the understanding of the representatives of this type, exists in order to be spent on something pleasurable, and precisely on this it primarily gets spent. As a result, the ESE may have a substantial number of unpaid loans and uncovered credits. On the other hand, the ESFj attempts to somehow fight this trait of impracticality, and therefore tries to be very prudent particularly in financial questions. From this arises that special contrast, which seems so strange and difficult to understand in the behavior of representatives of this type - a combination of sincere soulful generosity and calculated financial pettiness; the combination of extravagance and penny-pinching. This is explained by the fact that the ESFj tries to conduct his matters or business in such a way that his desires would be satisfied and his money would multiply and increase at the same time.

But how does the ESFj succeeded in reconciling this contradiction? - the ESE knows how to evaluate the quality of a thing very well, and always knows where it is possible to make inexpensive yet decent purchases. People of this type often visit various sales events, discount stores, and open markets where prices can be negotiated. The ESE is a specialist in knowing how a price is formed: he knows from which parts or qualities the total sum is derived, as well as how he could legally bring it down. The ESE knows how to make a salesperson reduce his prices, knows how to negotiate and strike up deals such that no one else will have enough endurance and willpower to oppose or resist him. (A phenomenon sufficiently widespread in some "eastern" markets — a salesman drives away a representative of this type from his stand while shouting: "Go away! I don't need you or your money!!")

While visiting a store, the ESFj is interested not only in the price of something, but also in the percentage of a sale or a discount. Preparing for a large purchase, the ESFj will try to come to an agreement with the salesman about the possibility to somehow "go around" the tax, which contributes an additional cost, then ask for a general reduction in price for such a large purchase, and then may try to use the opportunity to intimidate and scare the salesman with the fact that he agreed to an "illegal" transaction. The ESE always knows what he is due, what should be given to him: he is great a master of defending his consumer rights.

Striking up some business agreement for ESFj frequently begins with acknowledgements of personal sympathy and confidence, proposals to go out for lunch or "a cup of coffee", but just as often it concludes with direct volitional pressuring, and in some cases even threats that may turn into blackmail.

Taking up business, some representatives of this type know how to use the system of taxation wonderfully well for their manipulations and for increasing their own incomes. No matter how high the taxes are raised, they are usually not reflected on the prosperity of ESE's company or business. Of course, this is only if he doesn't lose his sense of measure. (Sad lesson of Leona Helmsley - a famous millionaire who was convicted for evasion of taxes - is a great illustrative example of this.)

Nevertheless, no matter how much the ESFj tries to reasonably distribute his personal budget, frequently it exists along the principle: "too much - then too little". Yesterday - celebrations and feasts by mountains, today - "as poor as a church mouse", searching from whom to borrow money.

Borrowing money from friends and close people, the ESFj tries to repay his debt in time and without fail. (Since this concerns his personal relations.) But if business relations go beyond the scope of his personal relationships, in cases of serious financial difficulties, the ESE may quietly leave his debts unpaid.

The ESFj frequently builds his business relationships on the basis of his own idea of "personal and ethical fairness" - a peculiar ethical interpretation of the "business" principle "You for me - and I for you", which consists of the fact that the ESFj attempts to "sell for a greater price" his demonstrative heartfulness in hopes to obtain for this a reduction or a concession: "You see how I'm open before you with my entire heart and soul - so why not let us come to an agreement?"

In case of financial difficulties, an ESFj employer withholds the payment of wages to his employees the more so, the more he shows his passionate love and commitment to them. (One needs to at least somehow compensate the material damages!) It happens that the "love" of such an ESFj employer grows to such a large scale, that it becomes somehow uncomfortable to demand wages from such a hotly loving person.

The ESFj realizes the true price of his cheap "ethical advances" only if he finds himself in the position of a worker or a business partner who has incurred financial damages; then "in manner of Robin Hood" he starts to take revenge upon his offenders, employing not the most ethical methods.

The ESFj, similarly to the INTj, considers that the distribution of material goods must be just and fair. But what to do if fairness - is nothing more than an abstract notion and an unattainable dream? How it is possible to live and act fairly on our sinful earth? And is it even possible to find a material (monetary) equivalent to personal feelings? The ESFj knows how to manipulate "business" values by substituting them for personal ones, transferring business relations into personal territory, and then vice versa.

The ESFj learns from his dual the INTj how to fairly distribute material resources and benefits and reasonably organize the budget. It is precisely in a business partnership with an INTj that the "ethical and personal advances" of ESFj are evaluated and endowed at the highest prime cost. ESE and LII quickly find mutual understanding in a business relationship, since both are oriented at identical ethical and logical principles. Furthermore, under the influence of the LII, the ESE becomes more balanced, stable, calm, and reasonable - the beneficial dual influence comes into effect. Then the ESE no longer feels a need to allay his unremitting desires by exorbitant money expenditures.

The ESFj knows how to work effectively and how to achieve good results, but he usually does not overestimate his qualification. In the depth of his soul, the ESFj frequently doubts his capabilities and possibilities, although outwardly he can appear to be sufficiently successful and confident. For the ESE it is very important to obtain appreciation for his work. The quality of ESE's work is the higher, the more he realizes the significance of what he is doing.

The ESFj usually works at a high and rapid pace. He takes up any new project or assignment with enthusiasm, but later may grow cold towards it. (Especially if he feels that this work does not correspond to his calling.) It happens then that he has to force himself to finish it. If he is in much hurry, he may ask his co-workers to finish it up for him.

ESFj's mood strongly affects the results of his work: sometimes he cannot concentrate at all, and then he works so thoughtlessly that subsequently his work will have to be re-done by others.

In matters of business the ESFj orients quite well. Usually, he is in the know of any existing regulations, instructions, and orders that are relevant to any problems, questions, and matters which he has to resolve on regular basis**. Thus the ESE frequently finds a way out of many difficult situations, additionally, without any particular damage to himself.

.. note::
    Translator's note: Since the role function is 2-dimensional and takes norms into account.

In business connections, although he tries to act effectively, the ESFj frequently introduces elements of too much hustle and fuss.

While doing his work, the ESFj prefers to use checked and tested procedures.

The completion of work for the ESFj is determined by the end of his workday. (And at times a bit earlier than that.) The ESFj dislikes spending extra time at work and staying over for overtime hours, especially if the pay is too little for this.

For carrying out especially important and significant work, the ESFj tries to prepare in advance, but despite this timely finish of his work rarely happens without last hour rushing.

4th Function - Ni Ni Introverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Under the influence of his moods and states, some unforeseen matters constantly appear before the ESFj, some kind of desire to do something that was not in his plans. Becoming fascinated and absorbed into some matter, the ESFj frequently ignores the time factor - it is as if he wants to stop time, or to think that it has stopped, although the ESE knows very well that this isn't so and worries much in this respect. The ESFj constantly feels a wish to do more than he can in the available time, and, as a consequence of this, there is a constant fear of getting overloaded, stress, fussiness, nervousness, and a sensation of being exhausted.

The ESFj finds it very difficult to plan out his day. His schedule of activities often gets either altered and shifted or filled to a greater density.

The ESFj fears any unforeseen expenditures of time. Any unnecessary over-expenditures of time greatly annoy him. The ESE feels irritated by an uninvited guest, by an unexpected telephone call, by an unwelcome visitor. He feels irritated by the need to re-do his work, which means spending extra time on it. He is irritated by the need to wait for public transport for too long, by excessive traffic on the roads, by the need to stand and wait in a line in stores. (One cannot envy the person who attempts to get ahead in line right before ESE's eyes.)

The ESFj constantly hurries himself and constantly rushes others. Frequently, when the ESE is in an unbalanced, overexcited state, some feverish impatience with the notes of irritation in the voice can be seen with him.

It can be unpleasant to witness how the ESFj upon arriving for a guest visit is already hurrying to go somewhere else. This greatly interferes with communication with him - he as if rushes and hurries up whoever he came to visit: being in a hurry, the ESE inquires about all the latest news, quickly examines the interior and any new acquisitions, creates a fuss around meal preparation, and then starts looking at the clock - it's time to go home!

In people the ESFj is annoyed by slowness, sluggishness, awkwardness, insufficiently fast responses, and insufficiently rapid mental acuity.

The ESFj also feels irritated when the conversation returns to the topic which he considers to be exhausted for himself.

The ESFj gets irritated when "the empty is poured into the emptier". That is, he feels irritated by insufficient informativeness of a conversation - in such cases he is overcome by a sense of an empty waste of time.

The ESFj rarely succeeds in finding a time to read. Thus, representatives of this type often do their reading in public transport, while traveling, waiting in lines, late at night before going to sleep, or early in the morning before getting up. They also dislike books that feature slow development of topic or events or that are too detailed in their accounts.

The ESFj dreams about that time when he will be able to live without hurrying and manage to do everything that he wants. But this desire remains as an unfulfilled and unrealizable dream. The ESE cannot always allow himself to quietly sit with some craft or needelwork - he gets constantly tormented by a sense of irrationally utilized time. Therefore, representatives of this type try to combine all matters that can be done simultaneously: if the ESE is sitting and sewing, then simultaneously there is something washing in the laundry, cooking in the kitchen, he's watching something on television, and, on top of that, he also manages to answer the phone.

Constantly living in a regime of heightened activity, the ESFj does not manage (and does not allow himself) "to make a pause", to stop and analyze the situation, to see its overall development in time, and to correct his plans for the future as might be needed.

The ESFj cannot rationally and economically expend his forces. For him it is very painful to hear criticisms about untimeliness and inopportuneness of his actions.

The ESFj finds it unbearable to endure accusations of unproductive expenditures of time. He feels irritated when he is being limited in time: he already tries to spend it maximally rationally, but if this is not achieved it's because the ESE, as any sensing type, takes onto himself additional responsibilities. Therefore, some unforeseen pressing matters constantly appear before him.

The ESFj greatly dislikes being late. He tries to conceal his incapacity to accurately calculate and estimate time: for example, running way too late for some event or social gathering, he will suggest to not go at all. Suffers when he is criticized for insufficient punctuality.

The ESFj always feels nervous when he has to coordinate his activities or events in time: for him it's very difficult to feel the flow of time, therefore he has great difficulty with estimating the timeliness and time duration of any events, work, or activities. (Any type of work connected to coordination of time is best avoided for representatives of this type.)

The ESFj without fail tries to be up to date in all news and all events, since, as has already been mentioned, he is distinguished by an active civic stance. He is always interested in potentially upcoming social and political changes and prospects, and the newly appearing possibilities that they bring. The ESFj constantly hopes for changes that will open up new prospects for himself. He counts on resolving his personal problems with their help.

The ESFj - is an optimist, and waits for only the best from life. For this reason, unforeseen complications and troubles greatly dismay him. (The ESE is even dismayed by movies and books with a sudden bad ending.) The ESE doesn't like skeptics who foretell of complications and problems, and extinguish initiatives. Even if the ESE himself feels upcoming troubles, he prefers not to seek advice from those who see the future only in dark color.

The ESFj greatly tries to be farsighted and prudent, which unfortunately he does not always accomplish. Therefore, he painfully reacts to any criticism in this regard.

This position radically changes when his dual becomes his partner. The INTj knows how to plan out time magnificently well and such that there would be no causes left for overloads, hurry, and stress. The LII corrects ESE's plans, regulated the rate of his activity, creating a regime that is optimal for his vitality and health - conditions that combine high output of work and rational use of time.

In terms of making forecasts, the INTj is also more preferable for ESFj than other intuitive types, since it is only people of this type who are subconsiously oriented at the intuitive sensations of ESFjs. Furthermore, LII's forecasts always have some kind of logical substantiation, and therefore they seem especially convincing for the ESE, since the ESE gets convinced only by that which is logical.

With the aid of INTj, the ESFj is able to rationally use and save time, which is necessary for consideration and solution of important problems, since any thought, which the ESFj has unsuccessfully attempted to consider, to base and to understand, in the account of INTj immediately becomes simple, natural, and accessible for his understanding.

Super-id block
--------------------

5th Function - Ti Ti Introverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESFj respects people who are capable of thinking logically and speaking to the point, and who can clearly and succinctly explain their thoughts. He is convinced only by systematized logical arguments and conclusions and becomes fully persuaded only by that which is logical. The concept of "system of views" sounds very convincing and reasonable to the ESE. Any person who has such "system of views" evokes genuine respect in him, especially if their views are deserving of that.

The ESFj tries to be reasonable himself, even though he knows that this is not characteristic of him. Sometimes he openly talks of his actions that were poorly considered and planned, as if inviting other people to laugh at his thoughtlessness.

Studying any object or subject, the ESFj, first of all, tries to see a system in it. The more systematic the instruction is in some subject, the easier it is for the ESE to learn and master it.

Factual information is most convincing to the ESFj. Usually, the ESE collects information from all channels simultaneously: books, friends, radio, television, internet, etc. During a debate, the ESE brings up these facts that he has learned from various sources. Once he has referred to some well-known fact, the ESE refuses to accept any objections and refutations, especially if they are unsystematic, jumbled, and chaotic. In such a situation the ESE will listen only to the person who can logically, clearly, and laconically refute his arguments and conclusions, which the ESE previously considered to be irrefutable. As a rule, precisely this kind of a debate opponent happens to be his dual, the INTj (LII) - this is the only type that is capable of gathering ESE's chaotic thoughts into a single point. The LII introduces order into the "intellectual chaos" of ESE - teaches him to think logically, helps him to focus on important issues and problems, to build a proper way of thinking. In one word, the LII helps the ESE with the development of his intellectual potential. In presence of LII's influence, the ESE becomes more collected, concentrated, and sensible. He no longer allows himself to commit thoughtless actions that can have serious and devastating consequences for him.

The ordering and systematization of his thoughts open up for the ESE a new way of understanding of events that are happening around him, as well as new prospects, potential, and capabilities.

6th Function - Ne Extraverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Newly discovered possibilities inspire and promote the pragmatic and business-oriented activities of the ESFj. He can support a new undertaking or initiative with an enormous amount of energy and enthusiasm, simply "lighting up" with new ideas.

The ESFj lives in a state of constant expectation of some unlikely events that will in the most unexpected manner overturn his entire life. That is, he lives in a constant expectation of a miracle. Often mentions his premonitions of upcoming changes. Subconsciously keeps himself prepared for these changes. Sometimes the ESFj feels an unexpected desire to make some purchase based on these expectations of possible changes ("One day I will leave the house and suddenly meet my "prince!... By the way, in what dress will I meet him?..")

The ESFj believes in fate, believes in changes for the better. Starting up something he frequently counts on luck and good fortune: "Others have gotten lucky, and how am I worse than them?" He is very much impressed by lucky people.

The ESFj may purchase a lottery ticket with the little money that he has left. Often makes analogies between life and lottery: "Love - is a lottery", "One's fate - is a lottery".

The ESFj listens to news with much interest. Moreover, frequently it happens that the ESE makes his logical and economic calculations on basis of these news. "Today they said on radio that beginning with the new year they will increase the benefits for single mothers. I counted that this is 1.5x of the old payouts! Finally I'll be able to afford new furniture for us. I'll pay for it from this increase in the benefit payouts."

The ESFj talks willingly and at length about his successes, possibilities, and abilities. Even in places where he doesn't feel sufficiently confident in himself, the ESE doesn't permit himself to doubt his abilities. It is possible to hear from him such statements as: "There is nothing impossible in this life", "You can achieve anything if you truly want it", "If you really wanted it, you would have achieved it".

If the ESE feels that his capabilities are nevertheless being doubted, then he seemingly accidentally starts a conversation about some of his achievements and successes. Moreover, for greater convincing power, the ESE will describe how highly his successes have been evaluated and the positive feedback he received for his work. His own abilities and possibilities - is a topic in which the ESE will readily get involved. Talking about his abilities, the ESE so actively and emotionally tries to influence his conversation partners as if he is fearful that someone is putting them under question.

Successes, talents, abilities of his children is a sensitive topic for the ESFj. Children's creative productions often make deep impressions on representatives of this type. For example, listening to children's singing they can be moved to tears, regardless of whether these are their own children or someone else's.

In contrast to the ISFp (SEI), who does not spare financial investments for the education of his children, the ESFj tries to give his children the maximum of education with the minimum of financial expenditures. For example, if the ESFj works in an artistic-ceramic workshop, he can bring clay and paint home to his child. ("How is it possible that nothing could be brought from work?!") He may try to convince his managers to permit him to kiln the "creative productions" of his child in the furnace at his workplace, and when these requests get turned down he might still do it in secret. The ESE negotiates the payment for his child's private lessons as if he is in the open market, and is always happy to get free "trial" lessons.

The ESFj often sees the root of his problems in the fact that his rights are being taken away, and that, consequently, this deprives him of abilities and possibilities. He often writes off his failures on unfairness to which he was subjected. The ESFj thus often actively fights for his rights and for the possibilities that these rights bring to him, since, due to somewhat limited intuition, he considers that it is precisely these rights that give possibilities to him: "If you are not given, then you cannot take." In the opposite case, equal rights of individuals in society are being violated, which could lead to chaos, anarchy, and the destruction of reasonable foundations of society.

Inequality of possibilities is always condemned by the ESE, and in this he is fully supported by his dual, the LII.

Id block
----------------

7th Function - Fi Fi Introverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESFj considers that a society can be called just and fair only when it gives equal rights and equal possibilities to all of its citizens. It is precisely on this principle that the ethical platform of the dyad ESE-LII gets built: the observance of lawful regulations with the distribution of possibilities: "ethics of fairness".

From all the possible ethical concerns, the ESFj primarily considers the correlation of rights to possibilities, since he believes that an impairment and denial of rights leads to a limitation in one's possibilities, and this, in turn, prevents a person from realizing and manifesting himself in the best possible way - it impedes a person from occupying his deserved place under the sun.

The ESFj retains any memory of manifestations of injustice and considers it ethical and to appropriate to remind of this "in proper time". An example: the anniversary evening of Gennadi Khazanov. Everyone is honoring the hero of the day, coming out with congratulations, mentioning his merits and achievements. Once the turn comes to a popular actions, and a representative of ESFj type, he steps up on the podium and recollects, that in certain year the respected celebrant not was accepted to the theatrical institute while other actors (some of whom were present in the hall) were accepted there because of their connections, even though they haven't distinguished themselves by anything special in acting.

Of course, with respect to other present actors this speech could be considered as unethical, but in this exactly lies the prevailing principle of ESFj's ethics: fairness - above everything. If some people unfairly used their possibilities and capabilities, then it is possible to throw a stone at them without any pangs of conscience.

The ESFj, at least the best representatives of this type, tries to follow this ethical principle himself. An example: while participating in a TV game show "Field of Miracles", a representative of this type, a popular and most favorite actress, expresses her readiness to forego her right to win a major prize, since another participant in the game has given her a tip to the answer. And only after the host of the game judged that she has the right to use this hint, she voices the answer and wins the game.

Following the commandment "a tooth for a tooth, an eye for an eye", the ESFj focuses his attention only on the abstract equation of these concepts: for good it's necessary to pay by good, for evil - by evil. But where is it mentioned that the measures your good and and my good coincide? And that the evil that was caused to me is equivalent to the evil that was caused to you?

The most natural equivalent for his own ethical values for ESFj are always material values. For example, it is characteristic of him to use very original methods to check the limit of the generosity of his partner: "When I go to a restaurant with a new friend, I order the best and most expensive dishes. And everything in enormous quantities - everything! But if he cannot pay for it, I always have some money in reserve... " If as a result of such "tests" the ESFj has found himself or herself in solitude, at least he or she has kept some pleasant memories and a certain material compensation: "So what if he has returned to its wife? At least he has left all his money to me. Everything, as it was, s now mine."

The ESFj stops having doubts about fairness and equality in relations only in a partnership with an INTj. Only in this case the ESE feels that he is not receiving less, but even more than he has given. Only in a relationship with an INTj, whose merits and natural capabilities for ESE have especially high significance, and whose deficiencies seem minor, the ESFj ceases to test and check "how much good he has done and by what he was repaid for this".

In relationships with partners of other types, the ESFj constantly experiences a feeling of injustice and unfairness in relations. It always seems to the ESFj that he gives much more than he receives. Thus the ESE constantly feels himself passed by and treated unfairly, and then, in turn, he feels a desire to restore fairness, for which he may use far from most ethical methods.

8th Function - Se Extraverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For his sense of ethical dissatisfaction, the ESFj usually compensates by priority on volitional sensing, that is, he tries to secure superiority in distribution of forces, where, in his opinion, there is already no and never will be any ethical equality. For this the ESFj attempts to concentrate all spheres of influence and all material values of his partner in his hands, if by this time his partner has already become his enemy, and tries to completely nullify and paralyze his partner's will and his activity.

Under the conditions of subjectively felt "ethical inequality and unfairness", some representatives of this type develop a fear that their native children are being related to more poorly than stepchildren (the "complex of Cinderella's step-mother"). In this case, the ESFj can take up "restoring fairness" by method of attaining enormous advantages and explicit priority and dominance of his or her interests. Moreover, the ESE does this with so much volitional pressure and with such emotional attack that nobody would ever get a thought to dispute them.

[**Translator's note: Sometimes it happens that ESFj parents think their children are being treated unfairly in school by their teacher, or in extracurricular activity classes by their instructor, of which they may openly speak up.**]

In a relationship with an INTj the ESFj does not get any causes for this situation, since the INTj with his emphasized, scrupulous pedantry equalizes in rights and responsibilities all members of his family, not making an exception for anyone.

The ESFj constantly and everywhere demonstrates his readiness to protect his interests, regardless of the fact whether they are actually being violated or not. For the ESE it is very important to demonstrate and prove his superiority in power as a preventive (prophylactic) measure of protection of his interests.

Any form of personal forceful protection the ESFj views only as a necessary reciprocal action towards someone else's injustice and someone else's arbitrariness, which he tries not to permit, since he fears any infringement on his rights, just as other unpleasant consequences and troubles. And troubles the ESE tries not to allow. For this reason, the ESE immediately tries to show himself as a person who won't allow anyone else to oppress him.

Show of force and will is therefore a natural state for the ESFj. The show of volitional initiative for ESE is just as natural as broadcasting his ethical initiatives. The ESE is always uninhibited in conveying his feelings and desires, but always wary if such initiative is shown by someone else.

The ESFj fears to show himself as yielding and pliable - he fears that this will be to the detriment of his interests. He prefers that the concessions are made by those who are "on the other side of the barricade", while his interests and his team should be adamant and intractable.

[Translator's note: ESFj is one of the Reinin's obstinate types.]

The ESFj frequently demonstrates his resoluteness, persistence, and purposefulness, as if proposing his behavior as a model for imitation. (ESE usually tells in much detail what obstacles were created before him, and how he overcame them, what he was told in response, and what he replied with, and so on and in the like.)

The ESE gets irritated by weak (in his opinion) and passive people. But he does not consider his dual, the LII, to be so — if a person is ready to sacrifice himself for the name of an idea, he is already strong. Such a person only needs to be taught by what means he can defend his idea without incurring many damages to himself.

The ESFj is quite capable of accurately estimating the power advantages of his enemy or opposition, furthermore, he is also sufficiently farsighted to not get into direct conflict under unfavorable conditions. In the alliance with his dual, the LII, the ESE knows how to wait out the time, in order to use his volitional qualities by the most rational means and at the most suitable moment, to protect his rights with the least losses for himself. 

