IEE by Stratiyevskaya
=================================

By :doc:`Vera Stratievskaya <vera>`, Reference: `Socionics from Stratievskaya <http://socionika-forever.blogspot.com/>`_.

Return to type description :doc:`main page <IEE>`

Ego block
-------------------

1st Function - Ne Extraverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE (ENFp) is characterized by exceptional insight into people and events. They are capable of evaluating the nature of a person almost at first glance and immediately giving a short but comprehensive characteristic this person. The IEE is able to foresee the development of a situation in an ethical sense. Not seldom he or she is capable of sufficiently accurately predicting the course of events in the future.

The IEE is an astute psychologist who notices the slighted changes in attitudes and relations.

IEEs work wonderfully well with people - they easily come into contact and communicate, sensitively feeling their conversations partners. IEE actors and performers easily find contact points with their public and keep them for the duration of their performance. They work well in show business, moreover, they often act better on the actual stage than at rehearsals. They typically don't feel afraid of their audience or experience significant "stage fright" - the presence of the public only tends to pleasantly excite them.

Due to their developed intuition, representatives of this type also work well in medicine. They, as a rule, are great diagnosticians, capable of diagnosing sicknesses at the earliest stages of their development by their most remote and subtle symptoms.

The IEE knows how to use those possibilities and opportunities provided to him or her by chance. Due to their ability to choose the most promising opportunity for the realization of their wishes, representatives of this type can achieve great success without applying excessive effort. They know how to derive benefit and advantage for themselves from each situation.

IEEs are characterized by constant and ubiquitous testing of their potentialities and comparison of their possibilities to those of people around them. They enjoy creating competitive situations for themselves and improvised tests, checks, and examinations for other people. Huxley is usually sufficiently jealous of the achievements of other people and unwillingly recognizes another person's superiority. If the IEE does complement and flatter another person, it is usually someone who is of no challenge and measure to themselves, or whose positive deposition the IEE is trying to win over.

Heightened expectation of his own possibilities and potential leads the IEE to acknowledge the significance of such factor as success. Success, for the IEE, is the norm. The absence of success usually makes the IEE feel apprehensive that something isn't right. Such "program" function demand towards themselves does not allow representatives of this type to make mistakes or miscalculations - they cannot afford this, as realization of failure greatly lowers their self-esteem and their perception of their own possibilities. Thus, in any situation and under any circumstances, the IEE tries to "be at a height", or at least create an image of it for the public. ("How you present yourself is how other people will perceive you.") Moreover, the IEE often tries to claim the reputation of a person "without any deficiencies and faults". The IEE very much dislikes it when another person criticizes his or her behavior. Even though the IEE theoretically understands that "no person is without a sin", he doesn't admit to any serious personal faults or flaws. Thus, at times he may say in half-seriousness: "If you see any flaws in me, tell me about it, and I will correct them."

The methods of attaining success always excite and interest representatives of this type. Many of them becomes the authors of the books about reaching success in one or another field or sphere.

The IEE has a phenomenal ability to never reveal or admit to own awkwardness, and to never admit him or herself to be defeated under any circumstances. The need to always and everywhere be at a height makes the IEE put claim to a prize or a reward in any situation and with any outcome. Hopeless, dead-end situations, in IEE's opinion, simply must not exist. It's not possible to put any of representatives of this type into an awkward position, since they simply don't recognize any faults after themselves, and in any situation behave themselves as if nothing special has happened.

The prospect of achieving success by means of long-term, tedious work does not seem attractive to the IEE. In part, this is because they know too well that popularity is short-lived popularity and public interest is changeable. Thus, is a minute of fame and glory worth slaving away fro many years, being occupied only by one matter and missing other possibilities?

The IEE considers it necessary to win over the attention of surrounding people and keep it at any price - this for him is a kind of training of his "intuition of success". Many representatives of this type, particularly in the childhood and in the youth, constantly "pull" attention to themselves. The IEE feels irritated and nervous if his presence is ignored, while being successful at gaining the attention of others Huxley literally "blooms": he tries to show himself in the most interesting and original light (and in this it's better to not compete with him). But if the IEE, nevertheless, does not feel sufficient level of interest in himself, he demonstratively ignores all those being present, which constitutes a kind of a challenge thrown to society, as well as another method of drawing attention to himself.

"To enjoy success", "to win over popularity", "to retain popularity and keep at a height" - all of these "exploits" of same order are achievements that have paramount significance for representatives of this type. For this very reason, many IEEs have a tendency toward audacious, provocative, extravagant behavior and staging daring "ethical experiments". Many of them, even at an old age, have the ability to ridicule, to tease, to mimic, to play tricks and make jokes. (Which is not always done sensitively and appropriately.)

IEEs love to boast. They frequently tell stories of their successes with representatives of the opposite sex, or how they have easily found an original way out of a difficult situation. An impression arises that the IEE doesn't even realize that such stories inspire his listeners to follow his example, although they are told precisely to this end. Even if IEE's "exploits" and "successes" are imagined from the beginning to the end, it is nevertheless interesting for him to look at how others will attempt doing what he, in reality, wouldn't dare to try (but which he has described very colorfully from his imagination).

IEEs are constantly "investigating" the potential possibilities of people in various situations. Moreover, their entire surrounding environment serves as their "laboratory". The IEE knows wonderfully well how to "probe out" a situation by someone else's hands, and how to learn on mistakes and experiences of other people.

Each time a representative of this type gets any "original idea", he sufficiently rapidly visualizes who from his environment could become its executor and its tester. The IEE knows how to find those people who will with interest receive his ideas and agree to realize them. He knows how to convince any, even the most careful and prudent person, that the proposed project is to the benefit and interests of the proposed "executor", that it doesn't promise any troubles, but to the contrary - only significant and obvious benefits for its realizer. Of course the IEE almost always accurately determines precisely which "bait" to use, which argument will "buy" the interest and attention of the person whom he has selected for his "experiment". If his experiment or project is realized successfully, bringing in some reward or benefit, the IEE will be sincerely glad about this, although he won't miss out on the opportunity to extract from it some concrete benefit for himself (for example, the IEE may hint to the "implementer" that he or she is now somehow obliged to him or owes him something).

In the case of failure of IEE's "experiment", last of all he will think about the fact that he has "set" somebody up, and that he is now the culprit of someone else's troubles. (The IEE generally tries not to think about failures: "Do not saw the sawdust", as advises Dale Carnegie.) Inspiring another person by his new idea, the IEE does not completely exclude its successful completion, although in any event and with any outcome he doesn't personally risk anything: if the project is successful, the other person will be grateful and even obliged to him, and if the outcome is unfavorable, at least there is experience and expertise gained, which was worry-free and painless for IEE personally. Such conditions for his "experiments" are explain by the fact that IEE, in his or her essence, is a pessimist. With all his seeming outward light-mindedness and recklessness - he is actually very careful and prudent; therefore, he prefers to travel by the beaten paths, but even in such case he tries to arrive first at any cost and "get the prize". (He may also "intercept" prize just before the finish line, which, in his eyes does not in any shape or form diminish the value of the victory, but, on the contrary, only increases it.)

Since the successes, merits, and achievements of other people do not leave the IEE to rest, the IEE frequently gets the wish to re-check another person's success. For example, if one of IEE's friends has bragged about the possibilities present at new workplace, her IEE friend won't rest until he or she makes someone familiar "verify" whether these prospects actually exist and if they are all that tempting. Any information that concerns potential and possibilities is extremely important for the representatives of this type. If to them this information seems improbable, they will try to verify it, to test or check it one more time. While at this, they themselves are highly unwilling to take on the role of the "intelligence agent": at the smallest danger to themselves they "break down", and from their "soulful simplicity and sincerity" reveal those who have sent them. Thus, sending the IEE on a critical mission is very risky. This only seems that in any situation they behave in a manner that cannot be predicted - there is always something constant in their behavior: under any circumstances they try to act in a way that guarantees the smallest losses to themselves.

The IEE won't miss the opportunity to try everything that seems attractive and tempting. He magnificently knows how to "to hold his nose downwind", how to be up to date on all events, opinions, and movements. He knows which opinion should be supported, which movement it is necessary to join, moreover, he will always be among the first ones. (Many others may view the IEE as sneaky and shrewd due to this ability.)

The IEE knows how to present his own abilities, possibilities, degrees, merits and qualifications in the most advantageous light, irrespective of their actual level and value. Frequently he "bluffs" and does not fear to be exposed at this, since he considers his actions to be a kind of test or experiment: if his self-advertisement is successful - all is well, if not - this is also not terrible. The experience acquired in the process may also prove useful some time.

The IEE is inclined to over-estimate his own capabilities while underestimating the capabilities of others. He frequently takes up work, chores, or assignments that exceed his actual abilities and competence, counting on being able to figure things out in the process of work and thus doing it no worse than others, or at least find some opportunity to promote and recommend himself. The IEE does not fear to be exposed in his incompetence, since he can magnificently "present" himself and paint a favorable image. Furthermore, as was already mentioned, the IEE does not acknowledge or become fixated on his mistakes and failures, even if they are openly and publicly exposed - he simply turns around and leaves, not troubling himself with giving explanations and apologies. If he decides that he does need to justify himself, he will do so with ease: "Let's assume I haven't been successful at this job, but I am ready to learn and don't consider myself hopeless!"

The IEE, in certain cases, is not worried that he seems incompetent, especially before a person who loves to explain and to teach, such as his dual the SLI. This ease in acknowledgement of his errors is explained by the fact that the IEE, generally speaking, never considers himself to be at fault or guilty of anything, but he willingly creates an outward image of repentance and self-criticism when he considers it necessary to "play along" with another person. Sometimes the "acknowledgement of his own errors" - is an advantageous ethical trick or tactical catch for him.

Modesty, in IEE's eyes, is not a virtue, although absence of modesty in other people he sharply condemns (which is means for him to slow down someone else's initiative-taking). And even though the IEE tries to show and broadcast his own individuality at every convenient (and inconvenient) situation, he critically refers to any manifestations of individuality from other people. In any sphere of his activity the IEE makes notes to himself which person is a competitor for him and who does not present any challenge. Those persons whom he does not see as his rivals, and whose attention and support he intends to gain, the IEE knows how to cheer up, to support, to inspire. But he will for sure find means and methods "to cut the wings" of any person who is able in any way to stand in his way.

The IEE knows how to turn the attention of people around him to his even insignificant achievement, how to give it weight and significance, how to "blow it out" into a serious victory or attainment. Due to this quality the IEE is capable of affirming his authority in a new position or place, consolidating his position, or repairing his reputation in case that it was damaged.

He likes to teach the "losers" and "unlucky wretches", making an example of successes and achievements of others. Negatively judges any notes of indifference towards a successful career, popularity, fame, glory, achievement and competition, because he views these as signs of weakness and light-mindedness. (Sometimes he sees this as undue manifestation of someone else's individualism: "Everyone wants this, and you, for some reason, don't?!")

The IEE tries not to tell anything in excess about himself, at least not in a big group of unfamiliar people: fears that this information could potentially be used against him. If one of his friends or family members "blabs out" anything extra about him, will reprimand this person about it, although he himself can hardly keep anyone's secrets, especially if he has been asked about this. Sometimes, not giving it much thought, may mention something "compromising" in a slip of the tongue.

IEEs love to create "ticklish" and "edgy" situations (indeed, it is so interesting to watch them happen!). He may, with the most innocent look, place someone in an awkward position, later being puzzled by why this person was offended by him. (Because for the IEE this is nothing more than a game: it would seem that there are no such awkward situations out of which the IEE couldn't find a way out.)

And nevertheless, under any circumstances the IEE try not to place themselves in danger or under the wave of possible troubles, and for this reason they don't like to "cover" for anybody. They fear taking excessive responsibility onto their shoulders. Therefore, they may calmly forego all their previous promises, if these oblige them to some difficult or risky steps.

IEEs love being friends with famous, capable, and talented people, or at least making their acquaintance or being their relative. They don't miss an opportunity to talk about their bright and influential "friends" and contacts. Indispensable participants and regulars of the most popular social events and gatherings (particularly in young age).

The IEE is always in a search of something new, interesting, and promising. Thus, his interests are extensive and diverse, but superficial and unstable. Everything new and unusual attracts him, alas, only temporarily. The IEE is quick to get interested and involved, but his interest cools and vanishes just as quickly. His interest in new people, new acquaintances, and new relationships is just as superficial and short-lived. Similar to a child who takes apart a new toy, in order to explore it by looking into its inner workings, and then losing all interest in it, so does the IEE rush to "take apart" and figure out the core or essence of each person: superficially or deeply it's not important - as soon as his purpose is achieved and his curiosity is satisfied, the IEE ceases to be interested in this person, and becomes completely indifferent to the the fate of their further relations. (The IEE sometimes brags by the fact that he has "sent someone away", turned somebody down, expelled, led on and tricked someone.)

The IEE knows how to quickly assess people with respect to their possibilities and abilities. He always knows what to expect from a person, and whom he can use to which purpose. He possesses the ability to see in each person their most vulnerable point, their "Achilles heel". The IEE magnificently plays on these weaknesses of others, and uses this ability to achieve his own purposes, building to this purpose his own system of relations, which will be examined in the next section.

2nd Function - Fi Introverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A characteristic feature of IEE's ethical function is the ability to adapt to his conversation partner, "to tune into his frequency": a quality that helps the IEE attain positive consideration of practically anyone, even those the most unsocial and quiet person, and "to peer into his soul" as deeply as it satisfies the IEE's interest.

The IEE is endowed with the ability to "find a master key" to any person and to each soul - even the most distant, closed off, and mysterious one. To accomplish this, the IEE is in possession of a mass of means and methods:

- The ability to boisterously and openly admire an interesting to him person and become charmed by him or her. To learn everything about their habits, preferences, interests, likes and dislikes, and with readiness adapt and mimic their style of living.

- The ability to agree with the opinion of the majority (and "seniority"). Ability to adapt his views to changing circumstances, influences, and movements.

- The ability to see the degree of self-confidence of lack of thereof in each person - a quality that allows the IEE to manipulate people very well, to play on their own ambitions, desires, flaws, and complexes.

- The ability to offer his help and his services, or to impose them: to make a person interested in IEE's possibilities, influence, and connections. (Even though the IEE won't allow anyone close to his valued connections - he is very much apprehensive that someone else may intercept a good opportunity or a chance he could have used himself, i.e. his own winning ticket.)

Nevertheless, it would be incorrect to consider the IEE to be so cunning and insidious in creating intrigues, cleverly using his own capabilities for satisfaction of selfish goals. This form of building relations simply supports his own "program" and ensures realization of his conceived plans.

Can the IEE offer his help just because, from altruistic motives? Yes, of course he can! And he does this quite often. IEE's offers of help should be understood precisely as demonstrations of his sympathy and well-wishing towards a particular person, as well as the expression of sensitivity and consideration for that person's problems. However, the IEE does not hurry to extend real help. Moreover, as soon as the person accepts his proposal, the IEE starts to feel nervous concerning this new responsibility that he has tooken onto his shoulders, and concerning the possible difficulties and dangers that accompany it. He begins to feel afraid of unnecessary expenditures of his time and forces. Now the IEE no longer feels glad that he has offered his aid, and even upset with the person who has so literally understood his offer. It starts to seem to him that this unfamiliar person wants too much from him. Trying to somehow correct this awkward situation, the IEE often creates distance between himself and the other person whom he has offered to help: he puts on a haughty look, with which he underscores the value of his help or service, letting the other person know that he will be obliged for this help - in short, the IEE starts to behave in such a way that the other person no longer feels comfortable using his services, and either forgo it, or never remind the IEE of it again. The IEE, on his end, does not forget about his offer of help and fulfills it at the first opportune moment, i.e. when it costs him the least of his efforts or troubles, and almost happens by itself.

Another ethical quality that is characteristic of representatives of this type: the IEE is the unsurpassed master of "false hopes and ditches", and, once again, there is no intentional insidiousness or cunning within this behavior - this is nothing more than a method of regulating and adjusting psychological distance, during formation of relations, done for the purpose of generating a stable interest from the side of his partner, and testing the depth of his partner's feelings. The necessity of such an approach to relationships is determined by the fact that IEE is oriented as such dual as the SLI, who often very quickly transfers relations from the field of ethics and feelings to there sphere of sensual pleasures, satisfying which he sufficiently rapidly loses interest in a partner. Therefore this tactic is necessary, first of all, for the SLI, since it constantly fuels and inspires his interest, and stabilizes their dual relations. (Otherwise, the SLI risks remaining without a satisfactory partner. Only the insightful and prudent IEE is capable of forming a worthy match for him in every respect.)

One ought not to view the intentions behind IEE's behavior as poor also because initial well-wishing is included into the system of values of all types of the fourth quadra. The IEE is thus initially friendly and cordial towards a person when getting introduced to them, and will keep in touch and maintain relations for as long as that person is interesting and attractive to him. Problems start when the IEE loses all interest in the person, which may happen right after introduction, at the very beginning of their acquaintance. The question is, how does judicious and insightful IEE circumvent this tricky and potentially troublesome situation, when he doesn't want to make enemies, when he wishes to forgo any scandals and not draw somebody's ire onto himself?

The first goal the IEE sets for himself is to immediately soften and suppress any created awkwardness. To calm the person by any means possible, to dispel any suspicions, to make whichever promises came to his mind, and try to persuade the person of his best intentions. To avoid a quarrel or falling out by all means possible, and delay the sorting out of relations to some indeterminate future date, hoping that eventually there won't be any need for it, or that some future events will change and correct the situation. IEE's striving to soften and diffuse any emotional tension is oriented at the weak and vulnerable emotional function of his dual, the SLI. For this reason the IEE typically tries not to let his relations get to the point of open conflicts and discord.

This is not the end, however, because the absence of IEE's interest in someone is also inconstant. Therefore, he never allows anyone "to disappear forever". Regardless of the fact of how far the IEE has distanced and expelled his partner, he will always find an opportunity or occasion to remind about himself and to renew relations in a form that is most convenient to him. For him this is an additional method to adjust and regular the interpersonal distance. (The SLI regulates personal distance by analogous method - for his it is necessary in order to balance out the emotional pressure exerted by his ethical partner.)

The IEE tries under no circumstances to remain alone, to end up in solitude. (A lonely person looks like a "loser", which repulses all people around him, and, correspondingly, deprives him of chances of success). For these reasons, and also in view of his exceptional communicability, the IEE prefers to have "spares" and "options" of partners for any form of relations. (These "fallback" or "spare" partners fulfill the function of "distracting maneuvers" in the ethical games of IEE and SLI: the SLI is not very interested in a partner who completely fixates on him. This form of relations to him seems too burdensome, too dull, predictable, and boring, while relations that include "other options" on one side calm him down, and from the other side lull to sleep his vigilance, which prepares him for the new ethical tricks and catches of the IEE.)

The IEE sometimes creates a "myth" of another partner, a "spectre" of a rival. For example, he likes to introduce all the people who are interested in him to each other ("to pit them face to face"), and coming to a meeting with one the IEE begins to tell about his feelings and relations with another. Why? - again, because the IEE is "programmed" for relations with a SLI, who feels activated, intrigued, and excited by such "ethical games", and who sometimes approaches the ethics of relationships from the stance of: "If this woman doesn't have anyone, this means nobody needs her, and so why is she needed to me?"

This creates another motivation for the IEE to simultaneously start several relationships: under any circumstances the IEE tries not to focus his attention on one partner (remember that the SLI doesn't like it if anyone "gets stuck" on him). Thus the IEE starts several relationships with several partners, so that each of them feels a little "neglected" and "passed by" IEE's attention. If the IEE creates a relationship with one partner, then the others are simply imagined, but his real partner must feel a certain absence and diffusion of attention from IEE's side.

Representatives of this type frequently make the impression of being extremely light-minded and inconstant in their attachments people, of people who constantly initiate close relationships but will avoid or evade any physical closeness in the last moment. This inconsistency is also explainable: the IEE does not set a clear-cut and obvious distance in his relationships - he is simultaneously both near and far - creating a certain uncertainty and incompleteness in his relationships. This form of behavior creates a psychological regime that is convenient to his dual, the SLI, who poorly endures rigid and bounded by a preset distance relationships.

Besides this, the IEE loves titillating risky adventures and enjoys complicating an ethical situation to its limit, then finding a way out by the most unexpected and original manner. Why is this needed? - This is one of the requirements of IEE's "program" intuitive function - the search for the boundaries of their own ethical possibilities, and subsequent expansion of these boundaries. This is something the IEEs are constantly occupied by in any (not only ethical) situation.

But how does one explain IEE's tendency to avoid physical proximity? - Again by the primary orientation of his dual, Gabin, who quickly grows satiated by sensual relations (and, as is known, the feeling of satiation for Gabin is associated with unpleasant sensations, which he tries to avoid at any cost). Additionally, the IEE is a judicious "program" intuitive type, who tends to place the prospects of further development of relations above immediate physical and emotional needs.

From this come certain stereotypes of behavior: "A woman must be mysterious and inaccessible. If she too quickly yields to a man, he will lose all interest in her, and she will be alone once again". (And this Huxley always fears.)

In any event, IEE's creative "ethics of relations" primarily serves to realize the basic requirements of his intuitive "program" function - the search for new, better, promising possibilities, for which it is very important that the IEE does not remain in solitude and does not cut off already created contacts and established relationships, but uses them to search for other options and other possibilities. This is one of the reasons that the IEE tries not to lead his relationships to a final breaking point, but to remain with his former partners on friendly basis: the IEE turns to his former partners for help if needed, "cries on their shoulder" when IEE's current relationships with their next partner suffers complications, gets them involved in resolution of his current problems, uses their connections, interacts and associates with their friends and familiars. (One of the representatives of this type was asked a question: could he give his life for a night with a loved woman? - "No, I couldn't," he answered, "because then I would betray one of my main principles: to remain friends with former beloveds. And what kind of friend would I be if I die?")

The IEE does not exclude "friendship" existing between a man and a woman. Offer of his "friendship" for the IEE is, in actuality, a subtle and sophisticated "ethical game", the essence of which lies once again in establishing the necessary psychological distance with a partner. By "friendship" the IEE typically means certain ethical prospects that hint at some far-reaching and promising relations. Such ethical game, as is all of IEE's creative ethics, is once again constructed with the aim at the weak ethics of his dual Gabin, who is repulsed and scared off by any straightforward and direct manner of relations.

It is exactly this "ethical cobweb" that is created by the IEE that to the SLI seems to be the most attractive, tempting, and intriguing, and at the same time not burdensome, imposing, or obliging form of relations. (And that representatives of other types fall into this "cobweb" and become stuck in it, the IEE is certainly not at fault by any means.)

Super-ego block
---------------------

3rd Function - Se Extraverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type love to develop strong-willed qualities in themselves. They often play up a role of being strong-willed, despotic, persevering in achieving their goals people. Love and know how to "show character." They compensate for the delicacy and compliance of their manipulative ethics of relations, as well as all associated with it losses, by developing in themselves the capabilities of willful influencing and volitional self-protection, as well as by learning how to refuse, to turn down others, and to say "no." On their creative, manipulative ethics of relations Fi, representatives of this type are very much afraid of offending someone by their refusal, of incurring somebody's anger, somebody's hatred, and making new enemies, that is why it's much easier for them to bypass any such "sharp corners" and to fool around with promises rather than give out direct refusals. It is rather difficult for them to speak in a categorical tone, as it is with everything else that requires from them extensive volitional expenditures and a large expenditure of forces and efforts.

Thus, any attempts to present them with persistent demands looks like blatant tediousness in their interpretation: "Well, do what I ask of you! Well, listen to me please ...". If they encounter a refusal themselves, they become aggressive, cruel, and uncompromising. While IEEs condemn aggression, like any other form of violence, they themselves use willful methods of influence in situations where they cannot achieve what they want by peaceful means (of course, only from "good motives").

In matters of self-discipline and self-organization, ENFp's results are usually far from being the best. IEEs seldom manage to be responsible and dutiful, therefore they try to avoid undue burdens and prefer not to take on extra promises (because even their promises they carry out with difficulty and unease), and try to evade responsibility as much as it is possible. It is difficult for them to be punctual, simply because it is difficult to make a strong-willed effort on their own to get ready and leave at the scheduled time. It is difficult for them to force themselves to do certain things. For them it is more pleasant to live in a soft, relaxed environment, which does not require any effort from them, to groom and cherish themselves, and to indulge in pleasant contemplation or meditation.

However, at the same time, the development of strong-willed qualities in themselves, willpower, purposefulness, endurance, physical development are topics that constantly occupy their attention, even somewhat demonstratively. IEEs also gladly support conversation on such topics. They like to talk about their achievements in the field of physical development, to exchange information and recommendations about all kinds of developing and strengthening health regimens and gyms.

The IEE, not at all embarrassed by the presence of other people, can do "developmental and general strengthening" exercises right there at their workplace, without stopping the work. Additionally, they love to recommend this method of "physical development" to others: "If you work at a computer, you should do gymnastics every 15 minutes for your eye muscles ..." They react with hurt to any protests about the inability or unwillingness to combine work with physical gymnastics, as if they were recommending something absurd. (Nevertheless, many people interpret some of their suggestions in exactly this way.)

IEEs loves to read journals and blogs with recommendations for effective physical development at a minimum of time and effort. and enthusiastically share the knowledge they have gained with others.

They like to talk about physical endurance and vitality. (Often citing themselves as examples.) They gladly teach the "art" to assert one's own rights and to insist on one's own way. (However, they prefer not to go into the battle with windmills themselves.) This is not to say that such "teaching" lends itself easily to "Huxley". On the contrary, it requires a huge expenditure of effort and energy. In such instances, the IEE himself becomes very tense and strained (mentally he is already fighting). Regardless of whether a situation requires the assertion of one's rights or not, the IEE is already mentally "re-playing" it in the conflicting version, and often insists on such a resolution, although by his very nature he is quite peaceful.

Representatives of this type sometimes experience the desire to test their fighting qualities, however, not in a real and serious situation but they prefer to "toy around" with this. For this reason IEEs can unexpectedly provoke someone else to a quarrel, start teasing a person, half-jokingly hitting them, but when they encounter serious opposition they certainly lose and have to back down. Feeling the superiority of an opponent they realize the necessity of enlisting the support of a strong and influential ally**. (IEE very much respects strong people, always dreams of a strong and reliable partner.)

.. note::
    Translator's note: This prompts many female IEEs to seek the support of male SLEs and insist on creating close relationships with them, even though in the long run such relations leave both of them bewildered.

IEE himself is not always successful in the role of someone's defender: If the IEE sees that the person he is protecting has opponents who are too powerful, the IEE will try to get out of the situation with least loses and harm done to himself.

The IEE feels uncomfortable in situations when it's necessary to give a rebuff himself. As he is trying to defend himself he fusses around, becomes irritated and defiantly offended, and generally behaves himself in a very contradictory and unpresentable manner. The IEE likes to build his defense with references to authorities. He always takes offense if his advice and recommendations are openly ignored, and his own authority is not put in a penny. The IEE tries to leave "the last word" in a dispute to himself and feels very worried if this fails. (IEE's "the last word" is an argument sometimes looks blatantly unethical - sometimes this is what is called a "forbidden move" or a blow "below the belt." But the IEE does not feel embarrassed by this: the main thing for him is to win in a dispute, and at what price - this is not always important. )

The IEE often takes on a haughty and arrogant look, does not mind bluffing and hinting at influential connections.

The presence of diplomas, certificates, ranks, and awards always makes an irresistible impression on ENFps: "I thought he was a decent person - after all he has a higher education ..."

The IEE likes (but doesn't always know how) to take on the role of leader. ENFps will try to prepare themselves for extreme situations, sometimes replaying them mentally in their own mind, but in conditions of real difficulties they cannot keep their composure for a long time, and often scatter themselves into a demonstrative fuss.

The IEE likes to show their determination and physical strength. Often they take on excessive work loads with a demonstrative readiness, but then quickly find a way to get rid of them.

Feeling their own strength pleasantly excites them and vitalizes them.

Being empowered, they are inclined to abuse the power that was entrusted to them. They like to demonstratively command others. Sometimes they like to play the role of a cruel and inexorable person.

IEEs are stubborn. With all their external softness and goodwill, they become irreconcilable and unyielding wherever anything threatens their interests.

The ENFp tends to be rather lenient and not very demanding of themselves. They don't always like to have to answer for their words and deeds. Don't admit their mistakes, fault or guilt even when it is obvious. Often will try to displace their guilt or mistakes on others.

The IEE is afraid of pain and physical punishments, and, as a consequence of this, in line with developing endurance and willpower in themselves, they try to develop insensitivity to pain, try to accustom themselves to pain or even to find pleasure in it, although more often it is expressed in disregard for physical suffering of others. (For example, in one family, the mother of type ENFp (a doctor by profession) forbade her children and grandchildren from using pain medication, teaching them to endure pain, no matter how strong the pain was. Then she forbade them to take antibiotics, even if they were prescribed, then forbade them to use aseptic medications, by which she did great harm to their health. And even having made her daughter and grandson disabled, she wouldn't admit her guilt)

4th Function - Ti Introverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE loses interest in any subject or object once his curiosity is at least superficially satisfied. To further excite his interest or to somehow deepen it is no longer possible: this topic, according to the IEE, has already been sufficiently studied by him and he is not going to return to it, especially since there is so much new and unexplored out there in the world. (The IEE is very much afraid of missing some new opportunities. Thus he doesn't let himself to get "stuck" on what he considers to be stages that he has already passed and left behind.)

The only way to keep ENFp's interest is to constantly "warm up" and "fuel" his curiosity: to ignite his imagination, to intrigue, to reassure him, to keep his hopes up, and always leave a bit of something unsaid. In other words: to keep the IEE "on the hook" (which is what his dual SLI accomplishes).

The IEE is very inconsistent in his actions and arguments. Additionally, he does not consider this to be any kind of fault or flaw - this inconsistency is convenient for him and this is why he does it, but it is inconvenient for him when others act in the same manner.

The ENFp finds it difficult, sometimes impossible, to gather together and organize his thoughts. IEE's attention is constantly being scattered and dispersed. Listening to explanations, the IEE easily grasps the general, and often only superficial, meaning. Sometimes the IEE is taken in by an irresistible interest in the analysis of nonessential details (in such situations, to the IEE these particular details seem to be of great importance and necessary for a deep and momentary understanding of the essence). As a result, the IEE directs the explanation aside, sometimes even breaks it up, asking untimely or inappropriate questions and insistently demanding an answer to them. Additionally, his formulation of the question is sometimes so absurd and ridiculous that the explainer does not even always know how to react to it.

While he intuitively comprehends the meaning of many logical concepts and categories, the IEE often has a rather superficial view of them. Therefore, sometimes he puts himself in an awkward position, expressing things that are clearly absurd in the most categorical tone. Moreover, this "nontrivial" point of view of the IEE is capable of confounding even the most experienced and qualified lecturer or teacher, especially since representatives of this type are very capable of starting a dispute at the most inappropriate time.

The ENFp often experiences difficulty in explaining various elementary concepts. What is more difficult for him is explaining a complex phenomenon by simple means. (Here is an example of how a representative of this type explained the nature of thunder and lightning to a four-year-old child: "A cloud floats, say with a plus sign, and another meets it with a minus sign, and then they collide, and thunder and lightning result.") Sometimes the IEE begins his explanations from too much detail and too thoroughly, but later he loses interest in the details suddenly switches to a more broad and generalized themes. The IEE often becomes entangled in his own explanations, feels nervous and jittery, and becomes offended at his slow-witted audience that they have not yet understood him.

Nevertheless, representatives of this type like to "explain anything". For example, having gotten into a quandary, they often say: "I'll explain everything to you!" And they begin to explain the situation in order. "In order" - means an explanation delivered from far away. That is: first, they explain some tangential and insignificant circumstances ("the co-worker of my niece's brother's distant cousin"), next these "circumstance" are given an "intuitive" characteristic ("in all respects a loser"). Attempts to bring "Huxley" to the very essence of his presentation usually lead to nothing - he only gets annoyed, nervous, asks to let him explain everything "in order", and there this begins all over again.

It's always interesting to listen to an ENFp trying to explain the location of an object. The IEE usually describes the location of all nearby objects and orientates the object relative to them**: "On the right, you will see a shoe store within a hundred meters, but don't turn there - turn left ..." The IEE can draw you a map, but often it will be too detailed and too confusing.

.. note::
    Translator's note: This is potentially a consequence of IEE's particular style of thinking, called holographic-panoramic, where an object of interest is triangulated from multiple perspectives or other objects of interest in the area.

The IEE is very much afraid to confuse something, however, this is most often what happens to them. And IEEs get tangled and confused precisely in those things that seem easy enough to remember and understand to them.

The ENFp painfully receives any accusations of illogicality and inconsistency. They become offended when their mental abilities are being criticized**. Many of them happily work in intellectual fields. Feeling interested and involved by philosophy they themselves are not averse to speculate on abstract topics. They often speak in form of adages and proverbs. Some representatives of this type like to write down their sayings in a notebook, quote them to others and try to publish them in a newspaper.

.. note::
    Translator's note: If this happens and their intellectual abilities become challenged or ridiculed, the IEE will often try to change the discussion or argument to more personal tone where they feel their own strength on creative ethics, especially so IEEs of the ethical subtype. Thus an argument of facts gets re-directed by them into an exchange of personal statements and views.

The ENFp's like to express their reasoning with the most significant and polysemous look: "If a woman wants to seem interesting, she must be unpredictable and incomprehensible." The IEE enjoys making an impression with his statements, and in this what helps the IEE is their usual self-assured tone. Often in their reasoning there is an exaggerated (false) significance, capable of imparting "significance" and blowing up "importance" of the most trivial and primitive statements: "In the life of every woman there happens something of which she cannot tell to a single man."

The false polysemous significance of representatives of this type is present not only in their intonation, but also in their facial expressions - in a "promising" look and in a "mysterious" smile. But this is precisely the "illogicality" of the emotions expressed by them, that neither the look nor the smile reflect their true intentions, and in general are in no way connected with these intentions. The IEE perfectly observes and analyzes other people's emotions, but not his or her own. He can openly and frankly look at representatives of the opposite sex, but at the same time absolutely not to give himself an account of his own behavior (the ethic of emotions is realized in him unconsciously). Therefore, it will be a sincere and complete surprise for an IEE to be accused of giving precedents for jealousy by his behavior.

Only ENFp's dual, "Gabin" SLI, adequately perceives Huxley's behavior. Any intentional or "unintentional" hint he sees and perceives precisely in the sense in which it was delivered. The SLI does not see any illogical behavior in the IEE - he sees only a subtle and beautiful ethical game. Even when the IEE with a charming spontaneity tries to explain all sorts of wisdoms, the SLI finds this to be touching. IEE's intrinsically muddled manner of presentation pleasantly relaxes and calms down the SLI: he understands that the logical aspect of IEE's presentation is just a secondary plan of relations, and the main thing is the ethical aspect behind all this. Therefore, the SLI perceives IEE's logical mix-ups as a kind of formalization of his ethical game.

Super-id block
---------------------

5th Function - Si Introverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE shows a lively interest towards any information on this aspect. Any news concerning culture, arts, health, and sports are extremely involving for representatives of this type. The IEE may talk about health and sports willingly and at length. The IEE is interested in all possible diets, exercises, gymnastics, and, not yet having had the time to try them on himself, will actively recommend them to others. Attentively listens to advice about healthy lifestyle, and having once adopted some recommendation or instruction the IEE follow it without fail.

The IEE usually does not speak or complain about his own health, but he readily and openly discusses various prophylactic, preventative methods.

With aesthetic taste of representatives of this type not everything is alright, although the IEE may try to closely follow fashion and meticulously carry out all beauty recommendations and instructions. In questions of aesthetics and beauty the IEE is highly suggestible and easily influenced by another's opinion. Moreover, once suggested and absorbed information on this aspect reaches axiomatic level for him. Thus, the IEE is characterized by certain conservatism in his tastes, which combines with inherent to him originality in the most unexpected forms.

In dressing the IEE tries to adhere to "a personal style", which is not always successfully put together. Frequently in IEE's appearance there can be observed something illogical, for example, a felt cap and chamois boots in 30C degree heat. This "combination" is completely explainable from IEE's point of view, since it was chosen and put together by matching colors, and the fact that this is causes unpleasant sensations is not important: "beauty requires sacrifices".

Representatives of this type also have difficulties with using make-up: either it's not used entirely ("natural beauty is the best"), or the IEE uses it in an unfavorable and uncomplimentary way. Same happens with dyeing hair: they can exchange their beautiful, natural hair color for some obvious and crude chemical dye, only because "this is how it's colored nowadays".

The interior of IEE's home is typically organized not in the best and most rational way: frequently it is overloaded and cluttered. Sometimes interior organized by an IEE has a kind of gypsy-like, crude style. Cleaning and ordering things in his home the IEE does not like. Frequently the IEE does this only from a sense of habitual responsibility, and not from an internal desire for aesthetics. (With the exception of self-dualized representatives of this type.)

In visual art there may also be some problems with the perception of color, form, and lines. Often the IEE uses combinations of too saturated colors, or vice versa - monotonous and dull. (They love to use color combinations that, in their opinion, and generally considered to be successful: red-white-black or blue-grey-violet, and so on.)

In questions of aesthetics, rationally organized convenience, organization of convenient uncluttered living environment, in questions of food preparation and bases of beneficial diets, in the organization of reasonable work and leisure schedule - in all these questions the IEE has a suitable adviser - his dual SLI. Because it is precisely at SLI's "program" sensing function that the IEE is subconsiously oriented. Opinions of other sensing types to IEE don't seem as convincing and of less weight and authority than Gabin's.

6th Function - Te Extraverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The IEE is captivated by any opportunity to demonstrate his practicality. He refers with interest to practical recommendations provided in magazines and television programs. Before throwing a thing out, the IEE thinks whether it's possible to convert it into something necessary. (Sometimes he can give it as a present exactly to this purpose.)

The IEE visits thrift stores and sales events. A thing that has been put out for a cheap price to IEE's eyes immediately becomes attractive. In such minutes he doesn't think about its aesthetic qualities, but only considers it from the point of its functional and useful properties (which he, however, doesn't consider necessary to test).

Thus, the "practical" Huxley sometimes accumulates an enormous quantity of cheap and not very attractive things, to which he almost immediately loses interest and persistently proposes them as gifts or tries to resell them as "good deals" to people in his environment. Moreover, the IEE wouldn't be such a "practical" person if he didn't check whether his "gift" is being used. If it's not being used, the "gift" should be returned: it will be given to someone other.

The IEE takes up new work with much enthusiasm, but soon loses interest in it. He prefers to get to work without preparation, as preparatory process siphons off his enthusiasm and makes him indifferent. If the preparatory stage includes physical exertion and efforts, such as moving, hauling, ordering or cleaning, and other boring and tiresome tasks, the IEE begins to fuss around, feels irritates, frustrated, and generally unconsciously behaves in such a way that someone else would do this part of the work for him.

As has already been mentioned, representatives of this type find it difficult to force themselves to do something, to be responsible, to work hard for a long time, to work under a strict schedule. Once the IEE ensures his position, he tries to create a more beneficial working conditions for himself. He prefers to have a flexible schedule or non-standardized schedule of work. Generally the concept of "work discipline" tends to greatly complicate his life.

In the process of the work, the IEE can (and loves to) get frequently distracted and is able to simultaneously work on different assignments. And this does not seem it burdensome to him.

The IEE feels glad if he invents some new method or procedure. Loves to instruct others by his own "methods". Feels offended if his methods evoke criticism or are simply rejected without a clear and visible reason.

In work the IEE tries to reach high professional level, but only if this doesn't require great effort.

The IEE dislikes having to work through details. Any tedious and meticulous work is irritating to him. He hates having to go back, re-do, correct, and work further on something that has already been done and finished.

Representatives of this type love to combine working process with various physical and respiratory exercises. Sometimes they like to sing at their work place, tell jokes and anecdotes. They feel annoyed by an environment that is overly quiet and serious.

The IEE finds it difficult to be attentive, organized, and focused for a long time. They clean and organize their workplace only when the necessity arises. At the end of the work day, the IEE throws the tools in their places only if his type of employment requires it.

Encountering the need to do some unpleasant or uninteresting work, the IEE first of all thinks to whom he can pass it on. Representatives of this type are characterized by letting things go to such an extent that they "grow" into a seemingly big and unsolvable problem. In this situation, IEE's dual the SLI comes to his rescue - the patient, measured, and methodical SLI, with enviable patience, is capable of sorting out the most complicated and entangled matter.

Id block
--------------

7th Function - Ni Introverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ENFp constantly observes how long it takes to achieve the task assigned to him or the realization of the opportunity he has chosen. Any idea seems to him hopeless if its implementation requires too much time. ("I worked there for half a year, and still nobody notices me!") It is precisely this that IEE's "observational" function of intuition of time (Ni) follows and tracks, it is from such negative positions that his observing function submits information to IEE's "program" function of intuition of potential possibilities (Ne).

Another area of ENFp's observation - is the pace of development of his or her relationships with other people. The IEE always watches how quickly he manages to positively predispose a person towards himself. This is a very important indicator. The IEE constantly monitors that within the relations of interest to him, the distance should be decreased at the exact rate in which he needs it. The ENFp also knows how to create an illusion of a close intimate relationship, meanwhile essentially remaining in the position of an outside observer.

The ENFp has his own ways of controlling the rate of decreasing or increasing psychological distance with another person. How, for example, to schedule an appointment or a date and not show up to it; to force a partner to wait for him in vain, and then, as if nothing had happened, to call and assure of his ardent desire to meet. It would be a mistake to try to explain such behavior with usual for IEE illogicality. And it would be even more erroneous to think that the IEE completely ignores the time factor - this cannot be at all, because IEE is an intuitive type, and the time factor is included in his system of values. It is possible to see in his behavior a deep intuitive-ethical meaning - the intention to cool off partner's inflamed feelings, then to warm them if they have cooled down too much, and to proceed with this "cooling" and "warming up" of feelings until a certain, convenient to IEE distance is established.

In the relations with ENFp's dual the ISTp this method has a decisively positive effect, since SLI "reduces" the distance in approximately the same way: with the most unperturbed look he alternates closing and separating. Therefore, as a result of this unique interaction with each other, these two partners quickly become convinced that they are worthy of each other in all respects, after which it is possible to consider the first stage of their dualization to be completed.

IEE's relation to the expenditure of time depends on IEE's relation to the subject that expends this time. If the IEE cherishes relations with a person, he also cherishes his time.

As a rule, the IEE does not like to limit himself in time, especially if it is spent on satisfying his own interests and pleasures.

For example, if the IEE wants to talk precisely when a person of interest to him doesn't have enough time for a conversation, at which he hints to IEE unequivocally, this circumstance will not bother the IEE at all, and communication will continue until "Huxley's" interest in his conversation partner is exhausted. It's another matter when the IEE himself is in a hurry somewhere, especially if this is an important meeting: in this case he get nervous, repeatedly reminds that he must leave soon, - in short, pleasant communication will not happen.

The ENFp does not like being forced to wait, but does not see a big trouble in making others wait. A typical situation: IEE's friends have gathered are waiting for the IEE at a set up table, and at this moment the IEE calls on the phone and says that he is just leaving the house.**

.. note::
    Translator's note: True story, it was ENFp woman's 55th birthday party, and as her friends have gathered at a cafe and ordered drinks and a cake, she was over 1.5 hours late to her own birthday celebration. They nearly ate the cake without her.

Typically the ENFp always plans to leave on time, but at the last minute various other circumstances arise that require an unforeseen expenditure of time from him. (There is also this very characteristic situation: the student of type IEE comes to a lecture with a half-an-hour delay and after 15 minutes asks permission to go home, as she seems to have left the kettle heating on the stove.)

The IEE does not always realize the expenditures of his own time. He finds it easier to control time spent not in the most interesting and not in the most pleasant for him manner. He rarely remembers or mentions the productivity of time spent, only when he notes for himself some of his achievements: "I have fulfilled one and a half norms of work in six hours!"

The ENFp tries not to set for himself any distant goals or build far-reaching plans. His own plans vary depending on the circumstances, but their changeability and inconsistency, as has already been mentioned, does not bother the ENFp.

8th Function - Fe Extraverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since the ENFp is subconsciously oriented at his painfully susceptible to emotional impact dual the ISTp, the ENFp expresses emotions in such a form that is most convenient for the ISTp to receive them, that is, as if for fun, as if half-serious and slightly theatrical. This nature of IEE's emotions gets expressed unconsciously for him - a circumstance that particularly interferes with representatives of other sociotypes to assess the extent of how significant IEE's feelings are for him.

Everyone, except SLI "Gaben", gets the impression that IEE's emotions are inadequate to the situation to which he responds. To many the ENFp seems like a pretender, a crook, a sycophant - anyone else but not himself. The fact that the as as if shows off and broadcasts his emotions - this is clear and understandable to everyone. It is clear that he brings them out as if for a viewing, as it is also clear that he always observes the impression and effect he has made. But it is hard to imagine that he does all this unconsciously. Nevertheless, this is exactly what happens. The IEE has a subconscious regulator of emotions that brings them to a certain angle of expression, that is, it expresses them with some distortion. The expression in IEE's eyes often does not coincide with the expression of the rest of his face: the look turns out either ingratiating, or elusive, or deliberately indifferent; a smile is often promising and ambiguous.

Often an impression arises that IEE is not so much reacting to his conversation partner, but "playing along" with him. The IEE tries to speak and act in tune with the created mood or tries to create an appearance of some experiences, feelings, and moods.

Getting acquainted with a new person, the ENFp demonstratively expresses his admiration and charm to them. This is especially noticeable among ENFp journalists who are interviewing a popular actor or celebrity: the IEE not only looks with an enthusiastic adoration in the face of their interviewee (when communicating the IEE often looks into the eyes, creating a feeling of special intimacy of communication - "close contact"), but, what is also characteristic, sometimes repeats the lips movement of their lips, as if trying to duplicate their words.

Sometimes the IEE reacts in the way he thinks is necessary to react in a given situation, - which is especially characteristic of demonstratively expressed emotions (which, in turn, are always the consequence of problematic logic). That is, emotions are expressed as if by a written script, and the IEE seems to be like a scriptwriter and director for himself.

The IEE reacts seriously only in cases of extreme emotional experiences. Moreover, in such caes he can "wind" himself up and bring hmself to hysterics (again, based on some of his own, logical stereotypes).

Whatever the situation, an impression is created that the IEE as if measures out an appropriate quantity of emotions in order to behave in the right, appropriate way; as if he had some kind of subconscious "counter" that coordinates his emotions in relation to emotions of his partner. (And this is actually so - otherwise, a problem-free relationship with his dual, the SLI, would simply be impossible.)

In perceiving negative emotions, the IEE is often painfully hurt: if he is frankly upset and offended, the IEE will suffer sincerely, although he may react in quite the opposite way. But in terms of expressing emotions, the IEE primarily chooses the most delicate and tactful means of emotional impact, as he is subconsciously oriented at the "hard-to-get-through" SLI, who shields himself from all sorts of negative emotions by a layer of impenetrable armor. (Any attempts to influence carried out in another emotional mode are either not received by the SLI, or require exorbitant expenditure of effort and energy from his partner, which happens when partners are psychologically incompatible and leads them to the brink of physical and emotional overstrain and exhaustion.) Only the ENFp's emotional regime is optimal for the ISTp and is always adequately perceived by him. 