LSE by Stratiyevskaya
============================

By :doc:`Vera Stratievskaya <vera>`, Reference: `Socionics from Stratievskaya <http://socionika-forever.blogspot.com/>`_.

Return to type description :doc:`main page <LSE>`

Ego block
------------

1st Function - Te Extraverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ESTj relies first of all on his personal volitional qualities, on his leadership and organizational skills, on his ability to exact from others and contribute his personal efforts, on his skill to manage and distribute resources and use reserves, independent of objective economic conditions, regardless of whether they are favorable or not. The main factor is that they are stable. (In contrast to the LIE, who relies primarily on his strong intuition and his ability to adapt to constantly changing conditions, using them for his own benefit; on taking advantage of favorable objective conditions and possibilities.)

Representatives of this type are distinguished by exceptional capacity for work and an high level of activity. The amount of their work is not limited by time nor the extent of their own powers. Impression is created, that they want do over all the tasks that enter their field of sight.

Their business activity is limitless and inexhaustible. When they start working on something, they will be constantly "opening up" new tasks and possibilities for themselves – thus they dive into the process of work as if they are digging out a "vein of gold".

Any type of professional occupation or work they drive to the highest degree of professionalism. The volume of their practical and technical knowledge is usually quite impressive. In any matter, they are distinguished by exceptional exactingness and selflessness: "Everything that I do, I do well". "Victory awaits those, who keep everything in order – this is called success" (Roald Amundsen).

Their entire purpose of life is in work, in labor, in their involvement in the occupations that they have selected. People of this type usually do not understand, how it is possible to "work at half-strength". They in principle do not accept or recognize an irresponsible attitude towards one's chores and assignments. Those who work "haphazardly" in their understanding are not even people. Their relation to various kinds of "freeloaders" and "slackers" goes without mention – for them these people exist at the opposite pole of the planet. (At an old age, LSEs usually no longer has the strength to fight with them – one cannot eradicate all "evil" in the world, there are more important matters.)

LSE considers selfless labor to be the norm. Therefore, as a rule, he is reluctant to give out praises and encouragement. (Instructors of this type usually assign twice the volume of work). The only thing that LSE encourages is reciprocal initiative (If he assigned to do the problem in two versions, and you made four – you're a fine person, but the next time these four versions will be a standard expected of you.) Of course, it is possible to orient the LSE to assign a smaller amount of work (this is magnificently accomplished by his conflictor, the IEI), but such an attitude usually puts the LSE on his guard and makes him feel worried – as time passes, work starts to accumulate.

An enormous work load LSE considers to be the way of things - both for himself and for others. Only to closest people, and in the rarest moments, does he complain about feeling tired and burned out. (Overloads, strain and stress accompany these people their entire life.)

Usually, LSE sees when someone cannot do a task, then he takes it over and does it himself, meanwhile in detail showing and explaining how it needs to be done. (LSE in contrast to SLE does not teach others "how to live" - he teaches them "how to do" and accomplish various tasks and matters.)

Regarding invention of various methods and procedures, representatives of this type have no competition. Positive quality of LSE's methods of operation - ability to maximally use the available reserves and possibilities. (For example, an instructor of this type may require solution of complex problems to be done by most accessible means, otherwise, in his opinion, you won't learn how to accomplish this task.)

The effectiveness of LSE's procedures often amazes with the results! Making use of the minimum of possibilities, he achieves exceptional results relying only on this methods and means and quantity of effort invested.

Developing their tactics and methods, LSEs subconsciously seek people, who know how to allocate their forces, opportunities, and time (which are qualities of his dual, the EII). This factor must be granted attentive consideration - otherwise, following LSE's procedures and methods can lead to an overstrain on the part of whoever is carrying them out. In such cases, under no circumstances should the failures be attributed to "dubiousness" of LSE's methods. Such accusations are exceptionally painful for him, but also they will be incorrect at their roots: never and under no circumstances does the LSE recommend something of which he has not become personally sure on basis of experience, many times testing it in practice. Therefore, one should never criticize him for "impractical" or "irresponsible" advice and counsel - such advice he in principle is incapable of providing. (Another matter - if someone understood something incorrectly, but this is not LSE's fault.)

Representatives of this type are characterized by high conscientiousness and personal responsibility. That which they promise, they will always carry out under any circumstances. They cannot promise and then not deliver. LSEs are pedantic and demanding in everything, which also extends to mutual commitments. They are usually very disciplined and executive. LSEs does not like when someone refers to them with a minor, trifling matter or request, since they relate very seriously to any requests. They themselves never seek anyone's help without good enough causes for it. They prefer to solve their problems by their own forces and the same they want to see in others.

They don't believe in easy success. The value of any work, any creation or production for them is measures by a quantity of efforts invested. "If everything seems too easy, this shows that the artisan is unskillful and the work is above his understanding" (Lednardo da Vinci). If work is carried out too quickly, LSE begins to search for deficiencies and defects, and, as a rule, he will find them.

LSE is good at evaluating the level of professionalism and business qualities of his colleagues. (Sometimes, however, they fall for ostentatious enthusiasm.) They highly value competence in knowledge in different fields. They themselves frequently impress with comprehensive erudition.

Any aspect of work is evaluated from the point of its reasonableness and appropriateness. They rarely undertake useless matters. Their own actions are weighed first of all by their reasonableness and by LSE's objective interests.

They magnificently organize the technical conditions for maximally productive work.

LSE is not capable to sit without something to do - he is constantly ready for activity. Representatives of this type usually possess exceptional, even excessive, energy. (If, for example, he organizes his co-workers to do some common work, he will actively participate in it himself.)

Not spoiled and pampered, and not a shirker. Always demanding of himself and of others. His attention is constantly turned towards deficiencies, defects, inadequacies, absences, and unresolved problems. He criticizes colleagues for insufficient activity, for lack of initiative and constructive enthusiasm.

In work he is characterized by irreproachable accuracy and precision. The quality control aspect of work he does not entrust to anyone - he will check both himself and his co-workers. His work doesn't even need to be rechecked.

The quality of his own work he does not consider to be the limit of perfection. If someone carries out work more qualitatively than him, he is sincerely glad of this fact, but does not like if the person proceeds to brag.

Reporting on work done, he does not forget to openly list all that has been accomplished, turn attention to successes and achievements.

Does not allow his mood to influence his productivity. (However, his poor moods and irascibility usually have an effect on his colleagues and others in his environment.)

Carrying out crucial tasks, he never relies on improvisation, luck, or inspiration, but only on timely start and hard work. (However, LSE is usually uneasy with the concept of "timely start" - sometimes he begins too early, when the process of preparation is not yet finished, and he does not have sufficient information pertaining to the forthcoming matter.)

Any matter he attempts to bring to completion and will not allow for work to be abandoned in the middle of the process. (Although, if he is overloaded by other tasks, he can ask someone else to finish his work, but he does so extremely rarely and unwillingly.) He does not like, when while he is working on one incomplete task he is assigned with another.

2nd Function - Si Introverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type place value on aesthetics. Everything that ESTj does must be impeccable - his techniques and craftsmanship are subject to constant improvement.

An impression is created that the LSE is set to beat all records, and he feels greatly disappointed if the quality of his work does not correspond to his own creative standards: "Not a single human hand is able to bring the work to complete perfection" (Leonardo da Vinci). And nevertheless the aspiration for aesthetical perfection is characteristic of representatives of this type. 

.. note::
    Translator's note: By some accounts, Leonardo da Vinci's type is LIE.

The LSE greatly appreciates aesthetics in his own way of life. Regardless of his occupation, be he a minister or an unskilled worker, the LSE is always composed, tidy and neat in his clothing and general appearance.

Representatives of this type know how to handle and wear clothing with exceptional care, such that one garment or clothing set serves them for many years and continues looking new much to the surprise of others. The LSE dresses in high-quality, appropriate and elegant clothing, without pretentiousness and excesses. To follow the latest fashions is usually not in his domain. (In his tastes, the LSE is usually conservative and adheres to his own standards.)

His main style is classical, though it is characterized by solidness and high quality ("expensive modesty"). Many LSE women love professional style, inconspicuous, but expensive adornments. Cosmetic and the perfumes they select with taste and care. (A distinguishing feature of LSE-women - their ability to preserve their beauty and good looks into the old age.)

The LSE changes his tastes and habits very reluctantly and slowly**. He refers with suspicion to new taste sensations, and often with some prejudice. Each time, trying an unknown dish, he preemptively inquires what it is and how it was prepared. If, in his understanding, it is not edible, he tactfully turns it down. LSE doesn't easily get bored of his usual, habitual food; its monotony does not depress him.

.. note::
    Translator's note: In general this depends on the subtype, the sensory subtype of LSE on average has more pronounced sensory preferences than the logical subtype.

Representatives of this type are distinguished by upstanding posture and widely spread shoulders. They walk with a proudly raised head; if they turn, they usually do so with their entire body. Men of this type are characterized by a determined, courageous, military-like bearing, even if they have never served in the army.

The LSE is just as demanding of the external appearance of others as he is of his own: he may turn down a prospective employee who arrived at the interview disheveled and unkempt, even if this person is a specialist of high class and has outstanding recommendations.

Beauty, refinement, aesthetics, and splendid taste matter to representatives of this type. This is what they want to see in their surrounding, what they will strive to create with their own hands.

They may conduct a family dinner as a holiday event. Best dishes are served on the table, specialty dishes are prepared - everything must be at the highest level (for some even everyday supper is turned into a ceremony).

It would be superfluous to describe what splendid cooks, craftspersons, and artisans are made of women of this type. Moreover, LSEs often take additional courses to learn different kinds of crafts, which sometimes sharply changes their professional orientation. (For example, teacher of mathematics started taking drawing lessons, then she learned how to compose bouquets, then took courses in ceramics and pottery, then she developed and patented her own ceramic technique, then she opened a ceramic shop for production of dishes, after which she requalified for a new profession in production of ceramic sculpture and souvenirs.)

Cleanliness, order, high-quality comfort - these are the requirements of LSE's living quarters. In LSE's house, there must be everything that may come needed in all cases of life**. ("My house - my fortress.") In his house you won't find empty shelves nor an empty refrigerator. LSE remembers which reserves need to be replenished. Any excesses and surpluses may be kept for a long time; LSE is prompted to rid of them only in cases when he is confident that they cannot be somehow utilized. He purchases products only of best quality, without considering the price, but in small quantities. (So that he wouldn't have to throw them out.)

.. note::
    Translator's note: LSE is one of the "farsighted" types by Reinin.

The household is taken care of and managed very economically and prudently.

The LSE tries to look after his health and does not neglect himself. Places great significance on preventive measures and on the need for physical exercise.

He does not like to fall sick and usually ends his sick leave as soon as he starts feeling better. (If his subordinates take more than 3-4 days on sick leave, he interprets it as desertion from the "working front".)

Representatives of this type are characterized by exceptional endurance and retain splendid physical form into the old age. (An LSE who complains about his or her health is a very rare phenomenon, and only in cases of serious problems.)

Enjoys journeys, active and comfortable leisure time. Regularly attends exhibitions, shows, and theater premiers. Keeps in course of cultural and public life.

Super-ego block
---------------------

3rd Function - Fe Extraverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In an unfamiliar company, the ESTj tries to play a role of a kind of optimistic and jovial person, tells jokes, smiles. He tries to be utmost polite and friendly with everyone. Patiently listens to a new acquaintance, regardless of whether or not he is interested in this person, nods in agreement, agrees, expresses sympathy. If someone tells him some sentimental story, the LSE reacts in the manner that one should, in his opinion, react to such a situation - he can even burst into tears, and do so quite demonstratively. (Even though in the depth of his soul the LSE is actually sentimental, he considers it necessary to hide this, at least, from his nearest circle.)

ESTj's sentimentality shows itself especially vividly during family celebrations, meetings, and reunions in a close circle of family members and friends: when he is congratulated, his merits, accomplishments, and awards are mentioned, when he is shown respect and various honors. In these instances, the face of LSE assumes a childlishly happy expression and his positive emotions may be expressed in some completely unpredictable forms. This state disturbs and excites him so much, that involuntarily a desire appears in other people to calm him down somehow (which is acutely sensed and accomplished by his dual, the EII). In moments of such emotional upheaval and excitation, the LSE is exceedingly vulnerable and defenseless. Usually, the LSE keeps recollections about such idyllic experiences for a long time and for some time afterward shares his impressions with others around him. (Looking from aside, LSE's emotionally affected state may even seem somewhat exaggerated, however, questioning his high spirits will spoil the holiday for him - he will feel more than slighted: his ecstasy will immediately turn into extreme irritation, since he will feel himself put into uncomfortable situation and will be sure to find a method to take revenge for his ruined mood.)

Among their regular contacts, LSEs usually maintain an urgent, high-strung, sometimes slightly raised tone of communication. They are very quick tempered. Moreover, they can flare up over any occasion. The LSE greatly dislikes when someone objects to him or starts arguing. (To argue with LSEs is generally dangerous for life. As has already been mentioned, their remarks and recommendations they repeatedly test and check on their own experience; therefore they consider their point of view to be the only correct one and are ready to defend it even with their fists, which occurs fairly often, irrespective of their education, position, or upbringing: "... My manager (LSE), a dear, intelligent woman with a degree in science and two university diplomas, suddenly folded a fist and swung it in response to my objection: "For this I'd beat you!"

Situations when the LSE is being told "the truth to the face" he experiences extremely painfully. Such "love of truth" he perceives as unacceptable impudence, rudeness, insolence, as a "declaration of war". Listening to the "truth" about himself, the LSE usually tries to be very discreet and doesn't immediately reveal his anger, but such "restraint" is far more dangerous than LSE's unrestrained fury.

The LSE finds it incredibly difficult to hold in and control his negative emotions. He tries to learn this his entire life, and usually not very successfully. The LSE may lose many friends, reliable partners, capable workers before they take up cultivating some restraint in themselves.

They find it easier to hide deep grief rather than their sudden irritation. LSEs do not complain, bemoan, or whimper. (They can live for twenty years in conflicting relations, and at the same time preserve the appearance of a happy family.)

LSEs usually do not complain about poor health. (Although they may, with a tremble in voice, mention a poor cardiogram or poor test results. However, this is more characteristic of the elderly, while a young representative of this type after arriving with a plastered hand will, with a smile, report that he broke it after falling off a motorcycle, but nothing special has occurred otherwise.)

LSE is touchy, but easily forgives. He tries not to hold resentment and remember evil for long, however, this depends on the depth of the offence.

The LSE does not like to comfort and express condolences, since he is not confident that he can do this well. But if necessary, he can do this in a very unique manner - he can point at person's objective qualities and accomplishments: "Look at all the successes you've had, look at how everyone is happy and proud of your accomplishments, so why are you upset? Everything will be fine!"

Anger and extreme irritation the LSE shows only in extreme situations - for example, to mobilize a partner if any concrete difficulties arise.

Tries to subordinate emotions to reason. Feels tired after a great emotional episode or uplift. Does not complain if in poor mood, and prefers not to talk about what has caused it with others. Improves his mood by rest, leisure time, favorite hobbies and music.

4th Function - Ni Introverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type frequently say that even if a day had 48 hours, still for them it would not be enough. The volume of work which they aim to carry out often does not fit into the time allotted for it.

One of the problems of LSEs is in the fact that they are poor at factoring in time into their estimates and calculations. Time is their bitter enemy: they want to bring their work to an irreproachable quality, but alas deadlines do not permit for this. They usually compose a daily schedule that is packed with activities, and for this reason, however accurately they try to plan the allotments for each day, they often fall victim to omissions and mistakes when taking time into account.

Establishing norms for activity, the LSE, as a rule, takes neither preparation time, nor reductions in working rate related to fatigue and sickness, nor the time that must be reserved for eating and breaks, nor other kinds of unforeseen time expenditures into consideration. Sometimes there are unpleasant incidents when the LSE pesters his subordinates with questions of the type: "How long is it possible to talk on the phone?!" or "How long do you plan to take your smoking break?" When matter concerns expenditures of working time, the LSE is capable of exceptional unceremoniousness - up to hinting that someone is taking too much time in the bathroom.

An impression is created that the LSE experiences disappointment every time others take a break, stop their activities, finish their study or work day, ask for a sick leave, or use their annually allotted vacation time. (LSEs let their workers take vacations extremely unwillingly.)

In the understanding of the LSE, a careless approach to one's productive time is the most terrible misdeed. If some deficiencies in professionalism and technical errors he is somehow willing to suffer, then squandering of working time of oneself or others (which is even worse) or creation of more working hours - is the most terrible crime in his eyes.

Low productivity is sufficient reason for getting fired.

LSE attributes many of his failures to his weak ability to manage timeliness of his activities. Missing time is very unpleasant for him. He estimates how much work there remains to be done and is often dissatisfied by results of these assessments.

Time is the most valuable and sacred of all his resources. LSE will never allow himself to misuse some else's time. A person who is inconsiderate with other people's time he perceives as a great social evil. (LSE, for example, feels indignant over the fact that someone has scheduled two business meetings for the same time but in different places. If this occurred due to someone's forgetfulness or the absent-mindedness - this is still unforgivable.)

Lateness he perceives in the same manner as getting shortchanged or under-weighted at a produce market. Lateness is stolen time (nothing more nor less than that). Himself tries to be exceptionally punctual, at least in the initial stages of relations.

As has already been mentioned, any unforeseen expenditure of the time is unpleasant for LSE. The need to complete work in short time frames drives him into panic. Then, he tries to start on work in advance ("She started working on her graduation project earlier than everyone else in class. Even before the requirements for project were announced, she was already done with it, though later she had to re-do several parts.")

Expenditures of time for LSE are first of all examined from point of view of their expediency and reasonableness. Time spent on studies, work, personal affairs, in his understanding is spent well.

He hates wasting time for nothing and does not associate with those, who misuse and waste other people's time.

Even in presence of interest in public life and political events, for LSE it is difficult to "keep up with the times". He is conservative in the depth of his soul, and does not always acknowledge and accept the concurrent innovations and novelties.

In this, LSE is complemented by a partner who is capable of not only seeing global changes with time, but also to convince him to take them into consideration, which is skillfully done by his dual, the EII. Punctual, responsible, gentle and unobtrusive in the contact, he constantly reminds the LSE about the most pressing matters, keeps track of his time expenditures and suggests how to set them to an optimum. He watches over his daily schedule and makes sure that his partner is not overloaded by work.

(LSE himself, however thoroughly he plans his day, always overloads it with activities, even if this is a day for rest. Even worse, when LSE compiles a program for daily activities for someone else: one of the representatives of this type, receiving his relative at his house (LII) organized her "leisure" time in such a manner, that in a couple of days she had a nervous breakdown, which incited a family quarrel and a break in their relations.)

EII adjusts the schedules and programs of LSE by forcing him to take into account people's physical capabilities, asking him to pay more attention to his health, and to set time aside for rest.

Super-id block
--------------------

5th Function - Fi Introverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Building personal interrelations for representatives of this type is very difficult. Subconsciously they are oriented at the system of the ethical values of their dual, the EII. Therefore their personal system of interrelations bears a somewhat idealistic nature. With whomever LSEs build relations, they are oriented at the presence of such qualities as tactfulness, delicacy, thoroughness, principality even over minor things, agreeableness, ingratiating attitude i.e., all those qualities, which are characteristic of the ethical program of their dual, Dostoyevsky.

Naturally, the actual reality constantly disappoints Stierlitz. After analyzing previous disappointing experiences, they become even more careful in the formation of new relations. They befriend people rather uneasily, try not to impose their company, talk about their personal life very little and unwillingly.

Very reserved - it is possible to work alongside with the LSE for several years and still know very little about this person. In communication, they hold large psychological distance. Outwardly they are quite distrustful and inclined towards suspiciousness. Nevertheless they don't permit themselves to conduct "honesty" checks - they consider this dishonorable for themselves and insulting for their partner. They consider that if someone has abused their confidence and trust, let this remain on this person's conscience. (If, for example, Stierlitz suspects someone of his subordinates of ill-intended actions, he will give a general warning to the entire collective, counting on the members of the group to uncover the wrong-doings and oust the troublemaker. Matters take a turn for the worst, if the group turns against him personally. Stierlitz waits out a certain time, hoping that the "main conspirators" will commit some obvious mistake and then it will be possible to disarm them and dismantle their plot, or that one of the members of the association will oppose and extinguish the sentiment. If neither that nor this occurs, he fires everyone.)

Any manifestation of dishonorableness, meanness, treachery, dishonesty, cheating are agonizing for the LSE. (Stierlitz in respect to ethics is generally very susceptible and can be deeply wounded. He covers up his internal vulnerability with external severity and inaccessibility.)

The abuse of his confidence is very unpleasant for the LSE. Moreover, the matter here is not in his pride and ambition, but in the fact that its ethical code has been affected. Stierlitz is subconsciously oriented at trustworthiness in people. Trust and decency he considers to be the standard in relations. A person not in possession of such qualities, in his understanding, is immoral, a villain, and should be treated correspondingly.

Stierlitz knows how to recognize his errors and fault (although this greatly strains him, for such an acknowledgement, as a rule, comes with deep feeling and suffering), thus he does not avoid responsibility. Directness and honesty are the most prominently displayed features of LSE's ethics. Woe is to him who forces Shtirlis to answer for another's fault - at his own will, he can "cover" for whomever he wishes (for whom he thinks it's necessary), but shudder to think what will happen if someone sets him up, even due to a misunderstanding. (Although this will be considered a "softening" circumstance, nevertheless Stierlitz will conduct the most thorough investigation, until he discovers the true motives of act.)

Relations with people who have disappointed him, LSE breaks without any regrets and tries not to think of them henceforth. Any references concerning such people are extremely unpleasant for him. (When he is reminded of them, he puckers and turns away.)

When someone tries to aggravate and sort out relations, Shtirlist perceives as a declaration of war: he mobilizes and energetically begins devising a plan of actions in the prevailing situation. Moreover this war usually goes on "to the victorious end" and costs him an enormous amount of efforts and nerves, which subsequently affects his health.

Stierlitz sometimes exacerbates relations himself and sufficiently quickly acquires a number of enemies. Therefore, the ethical program of his EII dual has a rescuing and preserving effect for LSE's own "problematic" ethical program, since it orients Stierlitz towards mutual amiability and understanding, mercy, grace. Dostoyevsky teaches Stierlitz to be magnanimous, to know how to forgive, he "softens" Stierlitz, smooths out the sharp and painful aspects of his relations. Next to his dual, Stierlitz is calmed, seeing before himself the ethical example of Dostoyevsky, who knows how to humbly endure any setbacks and disappointments and not become unsympathetic. The idealistic principles of Dostoyevsky are embodies into reality when they are followed by his dual, Stierlitz.

6th Function - Ne Extraverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If representatives of this type don't always keep up with the times, and the ticking of the clock that is constantly "biting off minutes" constantly holds them under pressure, then the creative thought of many of them considerably anticipates the concurrent events.

However fantastic and far-fetched is his flight of thought, the LSE is never torn away from reality for too long.

Even if not every representative of this type has an occupation that deals with research and development, each of them will listen with much interest to a story of some novel, bizarre phenomena. (Of course, that is if the source of information is sufficiently authoritative.)

The LSE respects and values people, who know how to generate captivating and original notions and ideas and who are capable of nontrivial thought. He treats projects and proposals of others with respect, and expects the same for himself. He feels inspired by any real possibility to actualize his creative strivings and scientific ideas. And vice versa - the absence of potentialities and tangents impedes his activity (if not completely paralyzes him).

The LSE needs people capable of opening and developing his creative potential, of accurately evaluating his abilities and talents, helping him actualize himself. Specifically, this kind of help is rendered by his dual, Dostoyevsky, who enthusiastically listens to his notions, ideas and undertakings, and who is capable of inspiring and encouraging his creative inclinations with his compliments and praises, and supporting his dual during setbacks and difficult moments. (EII, who usually does not like to make requests for himself, will support and reinforce the projects of LSE with exceptional energy.)

LSE refers with a lot of attention and the interest to forecasts and prognoses - he listens to the opinion of people who know how to foresee the course of events in the future (especially, if this ability is based on experience and objective considerations). Any study, project, or science that makes it possible to make accurate prognoses elicits LSE's interest and respect.

The LSE takes into consideration opinions of people who are capable of discerning the ethical potential of a person, his moral qualities, preferences and inclinations. (Logical and sensory potential, intellectual and practical abilities, the LSE recognizes wonderfully well for himself.)

He knows how to test his abilities and possibilities. In a challenging, competitive situation, the LSE does not wither, but to the contrary he feels a "sporting ardor", which mobilizes his forces, and, whatever transpires in such a situation, the LSE keeps up magnificent composure and self-control.

The LSE typically does not envy other people's successes, but feels happy for them because he considers that success does not come unduly and the person must have somehow earned it. (Although he dislikes arrogant, ambitious parvenus, who count on easy success, as well as those who try to attain popularity at any price.)

The LSE does not criticize and condemn too harshly for failure, but to the contrary will try to cheer up and to support a person whose work and efforts for whichever reason have not been fairly judged by their merit.

He dislikes when someone tries to prick and goad him by calling his attention to successes of others: success for him is not a goal into itself - it is necessary to work well in the process, and success will then arrive by itself.

Criticisms of his abilities the LSE does not receive well, since he does everything possible and impossible in order to develop them. (Not every "Stierlitz" will attain professional or creative success, but each of them takes development of own abilities very seriously.)

Id block
----------------

7th Function - Ti Introverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type learn their entire life, and entire life the obtained knowledge is not sufficient for them, which they are never embarrassed to admit to, but this circumstance doesn't always find understanding among their colleagues and co-workers. "She has 15 years of teaching experience, and she comes to my lessons with a notebook to record everything in detail!.." (from impressions of representatives of this type).

No work experience, no professional achievements give ESTjs the confidence in the fact that they know sufficiently enough. Representatives of this type are often deprived of any professional ambitions and never suffer the absence of self-criticism. Whichever level of professionalism they reach, they never allow themselves to overestimate their own capabilities and approach any new assignment or work exceptionally seriously.

Starting some creative or scientific research work, they scrupulously and for a long time collect the needed material. (Sometimes this collection of the material lasts for the entirety of their career.) The depth of working through the preparatory material in case of LSEs can be completely staggering. (M. A. Bulgakov, who has never been in Jerusalem, described the topographic special features of this city with a striking accuracy - a fact that was recognized by many Israelis who are familiar with his creations.)

The erudition of the ESTj is worth much admiration! Independently of their main activities, their libraries often holds all kinds of possible reference books, dictionaries, catalogs, atlases, and encyclopedias.** (In library of one of the representatives of this type, who worked in development and design of toys, there were atlases with images of animals and all existing species on the earth, moreover, many of the specific animals had dedicated atlas books of their own.)

.. note::
    Translator's note: Perhaps not in modern times since much of the information can be found online, and there is no need to keep that many books around.

The LSE is usually not troubled to admit of own incompetence, although this happens extremely rarely. Incompetence in a professional question for the ESTj is generally an exceptional phenomenon, but if this occurs it is often because the crucial information was for some reasons inaccessible to him.

Although it is precisely for a real LSE that no information is inaccessible. People of this type are ideally suitable for collecting secret and "almost inaccessible" information, they ideally correspond to the profession of the intelligence officer: exceptional power of observation in combination with the skill to analyze the obtained information (moreover, obtained along all possible and impossible channels), outstanding physical endurance, resoluteness, composure, maximum industriousness and irreproachable accuracy of work - here is a set of features that practically every of the representatives of this type is endowed with, due to which some of them turn into irreplaceable "soldiers of an invisible front".

Any obtained information, any bit of knowledge and data gives representatives of this type "information for reflection". The ESTj divides information sources into "authoritative" and "un-authoritative". The authoritative sources are accepted almost unconditionally, (although also not without a check), the second type of sources get checked and rechecked repeatedly by the LSE until the pass into the "authoritative" category.

The LSE trusts only that information which has been confirmed by facts and in which authenticity he has been personally and repeatedly convinced. The LSE accepts any new information very carefully, substantively, and fundamentally, trying to connect it with what he already knows. If he didn't thoroughly understand something, he is not troubled to ask again or to refine it. He tries to immediately sort out the received information "on the shelves". To the LSE it is always important to understand the subject matter not only in brief, but also in particular detail.

The ESTj can present the most complex almost inaccessible to understanding concept by most simple and intelligible means - a trait that helps the LSE reach excellent results in teaching and instructional work.

In other people the LSE greatly values the skill to clearly and consecutively explain themselves. To distract or mislead the LSE from his own thoughts is very difficult - when presenting anything, he never deviates from the topic at hand, and does not get distracted by any side-wise questions.

.. note::
    Translator's note: This is preconditioned by LSE's particular style of thinking, Dialectic-Algorithmic, which is dual to and most persuaded by the thinking style of Casual-Determinist types that lay out their perceptions, feelings, and thoughts in a consecutive and explicit manner.

A persons's inability to clearly lay out their thoughts does not evoke LSE's sympathy. He does not like mentally disoriented, muddled, chaotic and mixed-up explanations. The LSE also does not like distortions and manipulations of facts. Moreover, such instances always greatly irritate him, especially when they concern his personal interests or the interest of his business.

The LSE doesn't understand speculative logic nor does he receive it well - he is not one of the people who can be convinced with a simple juggling of bogus facts**. The LSE agrees with another person's opinion if it doesn't contradict his own persuasions and values, if it has been proven by facts, in which he has been personally persuaded.

.. note::
    Translator's note: Unless this 'juggling' comes from his Te-creative supervisor type, the ILI, to which the LSE is susceptible.

8th Function - Se Extraverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Constantly and everywhere, for reason and without any apparent reason, the ESTj expresses a willingness to give a strong-willed rebuff to anyone who encroaches on him in the smallest manner. The LSE constantly demonstrates his ability, capability, and willingness to stand up for himself.**

.. note::
    Translator's note: This is more true of male LSEs. This readiness is often expressed verbally rather than put to action in reality, a quality that leads some novice typers to mistake LSEs for Se-leading types such as SLE or SEE, confusing LSE's demonstrative-Se for leading-Se likely for the reason that the LSE openly demonstrates this function. While LSEs may give out demonstrative warnings, they are not quick to react on them and are not as impulsive, in contrast to Se leading types.

This ability is realized in the LSE subconsciously and manifests itself in his behavior at every step.

Regardless of mood and state, any representative of this type speaks with a constant, exaggerated pressure in their voice, with pacing and accentuation of almost every word, as if he or she wants to emphasize their special significance.

Always sharp and tense-angular in movements. Only the closest people ever see them relaxed.

In view of constant tension, which is very quickly transmitted to other people, communication with ESTj will seem unpleasant and tiring to many. But this does not apply to his dual, the INFj (EII). LSE's tension only pleasantly vitalizes the EII - it pulls him out of his usual relaxed, as if unwound state, forces him to gather his own strengths and forces, mobilizes EII's will and energy.

The will and purposefulness of LSE also have a demonstrative nature. For instructive purposes the LSE is able to show an example of how to stand up for himself. But the LSE will never be the first one to attack - except perhaps because of a misunderstanding.

The LSE shows decisiveness in the interests of his business, work, or project, in terms of protecting his personal interests and interests of his "team." For him purposefulness - exists only within the framework of expediency, as a form of realizing one's own creative potential. The LSEs are not able to "work with elbows" and "climb over corpses" to achieve their goal. Thus, the question of asserting and defending their interests and ambitions is also of little concern to them: they never seize power, but come to it by the will of the voters, and their right to governance and leadership they then demonstrate by honest and selfless labor.

ESTjs are exceptionally hardy and resilient people. It seems that overcoming difficulties for them is a natural and optimal form of existence: they work nineteen hours a day, are always energetic, active, keep their high vitality and external attractiveness into a very old age.

The LSEs are emphasizedly neat, tidy, organized, disciplined. They are also considerate of the convenience and comfort of others. They try not to cause any trouble to anyone or cause any inconvenience. They solve their problems by their own mean - whatever it costs to them.

The ESTj - is a born leader and, as a rule, a great leader. He is not afraid to take on a great responsibility and does not seek to displace his duties onto others. He or she carries the burden of worldly concerns without complaining, no matter how hard it is.

The LSE surrounds his partner with the most meticulous care and protection, combining his family responsibilities with professional and social activities. And if LSE's partner is indeed his dual, EII "Dostoevsky", the efforts spent are quite worthy and are fully rewarded.

.. note::
    Translator's note: This is more true of male LSEs. This readiness is often expressed verbally rather than put to action in reality, a quality that leads some novice typers to mistake LSEs for Se-leading types such as SLE or SEE, confusing demonstrative Se for leading one. While LSEs may give out demonstrative warnings, they are not quick to react on them in contrast to Se leading types.

This ability is realized in the LSE subconsciously and at every step manifests itself in his behavior.

Regardless of their mood and state, any representatives of this type speaks with a constant, exaggerated pressure in their voice, with pacing and accentuation of almost every word, as if he or she wants to emphasize their special significance.

Always sharp and tense-angular in movements. Only the closest people ever see them relaxed.

In view of constant tension, which is very quickly transmitted to other people, communication with ESTj will seem unpleasant and tiring to many. But this does not apply to his dual, the INFj (EII). LSE's tension only vitalizes the EII pleasantly - it pulls him out of his usual relaxed, as if unwound state, forces him to gather his own strengths and forces, mobilizes EII's will and energy.

The will and purposefulness of LSE also have a demonstrative nature. For instructive purposes the LSE is able to show an example of how to stand up for himself. But the LSE will never be the first one to attack - except perhaps because of a misunderstanding.

The LSE shows decisiveness in the interests of his business, work, or project, in terms of protecting his personal interests and interests of his "team." For him purposefulness - exists only within the framework of expediency, as a form of realizing one's own creative potential. The LSEs are not able to "work with elbows" and "climb over corpses" to achieve their goal. Thus, the question of asserting and defending their interests and ambitions is also of little concern to them: they never seize power, but come to it by the will of the voters, and their right to governance and leadership they then demonstrate by honest and selfless labor.

ESTjs are exceptionally hardy and resilient people. It seems that overcoming difficulties for them is a natural and optimal form of existence: they work nineteen hours a day, are always energetic, active, keep their high vitality and external attractiveness into a very old age.

The LSEs are emphasizedly neat, tidy, organized, disciplined. They are also considerate of the convenience and comfort of others. They try not to cause any trouble to anyone or cause any inconvenience. They solve their problems by their own mean - whatever it costs to them.

The ESTj - is a born leader and, as a rule, a great leader. He is not afraid to take on a great responsibility and does not seek to displace his duties onto others. He or she carries the burden of worldly concerns without complaining, no matter how hard it is.

The LSE surrounds his partner with the most meticulous care and protection, combining his family responsibilities with professional and social activities. And if LSE's partner is indeed his dual, EII "Dostoevsky", the efforts spent are quite worthy and are fully rewarded. 