SLI by Stratiyevskaya
==========================

By :doc:`Vera Stratievskaya <vera>`, Reference: `Socionics from Stratievskaya <http://socionika-forever.blogspot.com/>`_.

Return to type description :doc:`main page <SLI>`

Ego block
-----------------

1st Function - Si Introverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type are characterized by shielding themselves off from unpleasant experiences and perceptions. To leave and join a pleasant society, a comfortable solitude, or a "warm company" that allows for light, non-obliging, non-binding relations; to depart into memories that vividly and accurately recreate pleasant impressions, once experienced and remembered for a long time. ("As now I remember the smell of freshly cut grass of the football field, on which I walked for the first time in my life...")

SLIs are endowed with an exceptional memory for perceptions and experiences. They readily describe their personal impressions of what they have heard, seen, and lived through, recreating their experiences of colors, sounds, smells, and tastes. (In movies of Andrey Tarkovsky, SLI, the recollection of sound is used as a kind of "sensory symbolism", that is, the relayed experiences carry specific thematic significance.)

The SLI also knows how to observe that which is experienced by another person. He especially acutely notices unpleasant and uncomfortable experiences. (In films of A. Tarkovsky, some of the unpleasant experiences of characters are filmed up close and in slow motion, so that the viewer would have time to pay attention to this fact, since it has thematic value.)

The SLI is the only type who fully and unmistakably notices the hidden needs and sensations that not every person will notice or admit to in themselves. Moreover, the SLI can come up to an unfamiliar person and tell them about this. For example, he can by the look in a person's eyes figure out that this person is hungry, and invite them over for a meal. He flawlessly assesses physical dissatisfaction of a person and typically cannot remain indifferent to it. The SLI is perturbed seeing another person's suffering.

The SLI greatly values the created by him soulful, emotional, and sensory comfort. He tries to avoid any unpleasant, irritating stimuli, that destroy this subjective harmony. Such unpleasant stimuli can be poor aesthetics of someone's appearance, sharp smells or sounds, dim lighting, cluttered interior space, old and worn wallpaper, chipped corners, unpleasant intonations in someone's voice, and so on. Any manifestations of emotional and sensory discomfort has an effect on SLI's mood (sometimes even his potency), evoking in him an inner protest, igniting in him a wish to immediately change his surroundings. The SLI always tries to insulate himself from unpleasant surrounding stimuli. For example, being at home, he can turn off his phone so that nothing would interfere with his pleasant isolation.

The SLI prefers to perceive the harmony of his experiences in a single complex, according to his own subjective system of interrelations: an object must be simultaneously aesthetically visually pleasing, pleasing to touch, to smell, and to taste. Harmony of perceived sensations - is the main demand that representatives of this type make of their surrounding reality.

Outwardly the SLIs are characterized by measured, flowing, smooth movements, good coordination, and a combination of outer softness and laxness with composure and some restraint.

The SLI prefers to dress simply, comfortably, and with a sense of taste. Likes practical and sporty styles. Any clothes, even the working ones, he knows how to wear with natural, unaffected gracefulness. Independent of what they are wearing, SLIs always feel themselves quite comfortable and assured in what they are in. The SLI is least of all interested in chasing fashion, since in his tastes he is quite conservative and individualistic. He prefers to look neat and well cared for, although he doesn't feel shy and awkward about showing up somewhere in his working set of clothes, if he wishes it.

The SLI knows how to pay attention to and heed his internal impressions. Likes to talk about them, to analyze them. He values natural beauty and sharp, thrilling experiences and sensations. Lack of such impressions just as their overload irritates the SLI, sometimes evoking aversion.

The SLI likes and appreciates enjoyment and pleasure in all its forms and does not under any circumstances turn it down; he can make it stretch out and last for a long time, thanks to his ability to again and again recreate pleasant experiences from memory. A tendency towards pleasure - is more likely a norm of his life: "And who doesn't like pleasant experiences and things? What, is it necessary to live one's life in suffering? If I had ten lives, I would live one as my mother wants, anther - as my wife wants ... But I have only one life, and I live it as I want."

The SLI categorically does no agree with the assertion that "any pleasure in this life comes at a price"; he in general rejects such framing of the issue. In his understanding, pleasure is the individual adjustment of subjective experiences. The ability to tune and adjust one's experiences with the orientation towards harmony and pleasure - is his own individual capability, his own merit. Therefore, why does he has to pay for it?

Under no circumstances does the SLI place his personal prosperity, well-being, and convenience under a destructive blow. Moreover, he tries not to create any precedents for this. If the current circumstances have already folded in an unfavorable to him manner, he will try to come out of this situation with minimal losses for himself.

As a result of such attitude and values, the SLI can make an impression of an egoistical, self-loving, insensitive person. Such opinions, that do arise in people around him, indeed substantially complicate his life. However, the SLI will obstinately and stubbornly defend his right to live as he wishes, supporting and motivating it by the fact that he doesn't really want to cause suffering or problems to anyone else, and sincerely feels upset if his lifestyle causes suffering and inconvenience to anyone.

The SLI likes to sense his own strength and physical condition. Many of them will try to lead a healthy lifestyle. SLIs prefer the types of sports that are filled with trilling, bright impressions and strong sensations: mountain climbing, travel, scuba diving. Sport for the SLI is not only a test and check for endurance, but also a way to feel the fullness and vividness of life. (Image of a courageous traveler-trailblazer is very appealing to representatives of this type.)

Many SLIs will adhere to healthy diets, take up vegetarianism or "raw" food eating. Almost all of them know how to prepare food well practically not having to learn and study this. Representatives of this type value natural, non-artificial beauty of taste sensations, and can without an issue avoid using much salt and spices in their diet.

Some representatives of this type, in an attempt to find the most effective bio-energic regime of life and to achieve the full concentration of sensations, take up yoga, meditation, martial arts, striving to explore the boundaries of their physical possibilities.

SLIs like to walk by food, moreover, there is a perception of good coordination and measured automatism in their movements and their gait. For the duration of the entire walk, the SLI keeps the same even pre-set pace. They don't like to stop and wait for people who fell behind. Thus they like to walk to jog alone. Walking for the SLI is also an opportunity to focus on his own thoughts. The experience of the walk or run itself can be more important to them than its final goal or destination.

SLIs are endowed by a refined and discerning sense of harmony of colors, lines, forms. They sensitively feel color combinations, percept the saturation of color, the dynamics of a line, the lightness and gracefulness of form.

The SLI dislikes oppressive monumentalism. They enjoy simple forms, deprived of any decorative excesses.

The SLI knows how to rationally use space. Even in a cramped tight space, the SLI can create an illusion of spaciousness and a sense of uncongested open space. (A model of SLI type of aesthetics is most accurately represented by the aesthetic traditions of Japan: the combination of harmony and functionality of simple, natural forms.)

In their homes, SLIs don't tolerate superfluous unnecessary things and throw them out without regrets. In everyday life they know how to get by with very little. They know how to create a sensation of coziness and comfort in any conditions and under any circumstances.

2nd Function - Te Extraverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Representatives of this type are endowed by an ability to act prudently, calculatedly, purposefully, to conduct themselves based on a logical estimation, in any situation. Any problem, any technical assignment they resolve methodically and rationally. From any work they try to extract a maximum of use and benefit, any idea the develop further in such a way that would would bring a maximum of returns.

SLI sees his mission in life in development of new methods and procedures. Any scientific discovery is interesting to him from the point of view of its practical implementation and realization.

.. note::
    Editor's note: Perhaps the logical subtype, but not so much the sensory SLI.

SLIs focus on the goal in the development of new procedures and new technologies. They are interested in any scientific discovery from the point of view of its practical application.

The SLI chooses rational approach for any type of work. While at this, SLI's rationalism sets a goal of increasing the effectiveness of labor and alleviating the work conditions to make them less burdensome.

Any work the SLI does qualitatively, methodically, at a measured steady pace, paying attention to and working through the details. Whichever work the SLI takes up, he does everything unhurriedly, comprehensively, obtaining the maximum enjoyment from the working process itself.

The SLI thoroughly prepares his work place, ensuring that it is equipped with everything that is necessary for work. SLI’s tools are always carefully laid out - sometimes even with the same even spacing between the items. The process of preparation for work is just as "sacred" for the SLI as the work itself.

The SLI can take on any assignment or task with enthusiasm, if only it would bring some real, concrete, perceptible benefit. He can scrupulously and methodically study the most complicated and entangled cases. He can successfully carry out work that to others seems impossible to do, for example, fix a seemingly hopelessly broken instrument or tool, while using for this the most surprising adaptations. (If the SLI refuses to fix a thing, seeing that it has completely lost its usefulness and functionality, one can safely throw away such item away.)

Any complex and difficult-to-solve problem the SLI divides into several stages, breaking it into several smaller and feasible tasks: "... Imagine that your problem - is like an enormous mountain, and clearing it is only possible if you move the earth to the side by a handful. One handful at least on each day ... Then, before your eyes, you will see that the problem by itself will be resolved."

To the SLI the process of resolving problems presumes doing some work. Therefore, he tries to do this in a measured and pre-planned manner, sequentially, consistently, purposefully, and yet with a sense pleasure. (The SLI derives pleasure from the fact that even if the project is moving slow, still it's progressing.)

The SLI knows how to please someone by a service or a deed. In his understanding, the best way to show his own friendly intentions and to earn somebody's positive predisposition - is through concrete help in all life matters.

The SLI will never take up something that doesn't bring him any moral satisfaction. While it is important for him that his work is paid for, he may also do something unselfishly, altruistically, "as a gift". If his work truly interests and captivates him, then he may with pleasure take it up in his free time as well.

The SLI prefers to prove his view point in business and work-related questions by the actual results of the work. He is content when his work receives a high evaluation. In any matter, he strives to reach a high level of professionalism. Can be quite critical in evaluating work - both his own and that of others. Demanding towards others and himself. It is difficult to earn his praise.

Assessing the aesthetic side of work in progress, the SLI attaches importance to the originality of the overall idea. (The SLI sometimes values originality even above aesthetics, since he is "suggested" on this aspect. Therefore, work that is not distinguished by originality, even if it is aesthetically faultless, does not evoke pleasant enthusiasm from the SLI. Similarly, he will criticize and reject work that doesn't correspond to his own idea about the assigned theme.)

The SLI loves to instruct. He explains everything simply and clearly. Loves to teach, to train (as well as to edify and lecture). The SLI derives pleasure when others turn to him for advice and consultation concerning any matter. He considers it to be his duty to teach even the simplest things. (For example, while serving tea, he immediately starts explaining how he has brewed it.) The SLI loves to explain the sequence of actions or steps of some task he is doing in an easily accessible and understandable way. He loves to work demonstratively, in the presence of on-lookers or an audience. For example, while he is fixing an appliance, the SLI goes on to explain the cause of the its malfunction and how it should be used. (A quality highly valued by his dual, the IEE, in whose hands things break all the time since he doesn't concern himself with reading instructions, and precisely because of this he is grateful to anyone who takes up fixing his things or at least gives him useful instruction.)

Super-ego block
---------------------

3rd Function - Ni Introverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLI spends his time on things that give him pleasure. He values things that are pleasant, that carry him along, and that are interesting. But since his interest is sometimes saturated sufficiently rapidly, unforeseen voids arise periodically, which the SLI spontaneously fills with beloved work, contact with friends, and gaining “self-knowledge.”

SLIs love an unhurried, steady rhythm of life; however, they periodically experience a desire to live more intensively and more actively. SLIs prefer to live according to flexible and mobile style, trying not to assume anything and not to plan. For example, the SLI can appear to the encounter some assigned task, but after 15 minutes he may feel bored and want to replace the situation. But since to suffer discomfort is higher than its forces, the SLI usually refers to unforeseen “pressing matters” and departs, where, as it seems to him, he will be able to spend time in an interesting and more pleasant way.

It is difficult for the SLI to be punctual, although he tries to be. He wants to carry out all considered matters, which he wants to do so that the work would be more productive and the activity of more fruitful; therefore he tries to use his time efficiently.

The SLI sometimes forces himself to plan out his day and to carry out everything that he outlined, but it then notes that when he focuses on time the process of work brings no pleasure. And furthermore, temptations constantly appear, which the SLI does not like to reject in the favor of its order. For example, if he expects to visit neighbors “for the minute,” but finds them pleasant and they invite him to join them, the SLI may not be able to refuse. Thus its “minute” is extended on to be an hour (or sometimes it can be prolonged until the morning).

The SLI has difficulty finding time to do everything he needs to do. It is very unpleasant to the SLI to have restrictions placed on his freedom (and he does not like to inconvenience others or to create some problems). For this reason the SLI tries not to make any specific promises. (But when he does make a promise, as a rule, he carries it out - with exception of those promises which he makes under pressure).

To the SLI it is convenient to be with a partner who does not require the SLI to report about where, how, and with whom he spends his time. The SLI does not require any guarantees about the future and leniently accepts changes in his plans; in a partner, the SLI values someone who does not force him to adhere to an outlined plan and who does not require from him the strict fulfillment of undertaken obligations.

The SLI finds such a partner in his dual the IEE, who adheres to an even less rigid structure, and who can be patient with the fact that the SLI may be late to a scheduled meeting. With the aid of similar the tactics the IEE causes the SLI to strongly desire the encounter; this method, as the tool of the IEE’s ethical game, uses time as a factor. And precisely in this way the SLI is received; therefore it is pulled in with pleasure, where all requirements are presented as options.

The SLI will not miss the chance to demonstrate his insight. Sometimes on the basis of one short encounter the SLI can give a very interesting description of a man - about his nature, about assumed behavior, about his weaknesses and complexes.

The SLI trains his intuition: he attempts to forecast the development of his interrelations with another person or another at the earliest stage of his acquaintance with him.

In relations, the SLI has a habit of sharply reducing psychological distance from the very beginning, assigning a promising tone to the relationship. However, he can into the first minutes of acquaintance act as if there is proximity and even, if necessary, make a suggestion of hands and hearts. If there is to be continuation of such relations, he generally senses this well.

The SLI frequently develops the role of a stably successful person who does not have any problems; he does not usually advertise his troubles. He has a habit of frequently starting conversation about plans for the future. He presents his own prospects optimistically, while he speaks out in the skeptically about strange plans and is sometimes inclined to dissuade others from too-daring undertakings which do not coincide with his own intentions. Moreover, if actual arguments are not sufficient to be persuasive, the SLI will not consider it wrong to lie - provided only to convince and to insist on its position.

This behavior is in part explained by his orientation to the intuition of the IEE; he is subconsciously aware of the characteristic of the IEE to overstate his own possibilities. The SLI is programmed to be skeptical in order to free his dual from the superfluous self-reliance and illusions, and by showy self-confidence he intends to raise its own prestige in the eyes of his partner, trying in every respect him to interest him by the fastest means.

The IEE, with his characteristic insight, usually does not yield to the SLI’s tactical tricks, because the IEE sees clearly what stands past this smugness, but happily plays along since this is the component part of that intuitive-ethical game, in the process of which their dualization occurs.

4th Function - Fe Extraverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLI connects his senses in a unique way with the aspect of the ethics of the emotions. In his understanding Fe must be located in the subordinate position relative to Si. I.e. no feelings, a drop in mood will destroy the harmony of the SLI’s sensations.

Sensual pleasures expressed too much or too little relative to emotions are not pleasant for the SLI. It is very important that the emotional painting of the folding relations not interfere with the process of the perception of sensations. Therefore the emotional attitude of partner, and especially the quality of the emotions expressed by the partner, have exceptionally important significance for the SLI. In many instances the SLI takes on the role of the “traffic controller” of the emotions of his partner. For example: if it seems to the SLI that the partner is insufficiently emotional, he convinces him “to be freed” and not to be troubled with the expression of his feelings. But it is worthwhile only sometimes for the partner to express his emotions more frankly, and then the SLI has an insurmountable desire to cool those feelings, since this emotional flame seems too burdensome.

The SLI has methods for the “adjustment” of the emotional impulses of his partner - he first makes them burning hot, then it cools them. Sometimes this is done by the method of changing the psychological distance: the SLI first acts as if he is ceasing relations, and then as if nothing were the matter he renews them again. It does not come into the SLI’s mind that “regulating” the emotions of his partner in this way sometimes causes the partner to suffer very strongly. But most often the SLI uses this behavior to avoid stormy and unpleasant explanations of relations; as he sees it he is circumventing scandals and hysterics, which he tries to avoid; by regulating the feelings of his partner, the SLI seeks to find out his partner’s feelings without experiencing serious ethical troubles.

The SLI tries not to allow any emotional action against himself. He therefore tries not to express any emotions that might give occasion for emotional action. No matter how the ethical conditions of his relations were added, the SLI always tries to create the impression of imperturbability, emotional inaccessibility, and impenetrability.

The SLI is irritated by any manifestation of roughness or caddishness; he is put off by a sharp and scandalous tone. And although SLIs are certainly not known for their irreproachable manners, their own roughness is most frequently manifested as a response or as offence to the extraordinary tactlessness of others. (For example, if one of the SLI’s initiatives does not meet reciprocal understanding, the SLI may be greatly offended and react harshly.)

The SLI experiences criticism of his own behavior as agonizing torture, but he will not show this outwardly. The SLI will not respond favorably to attempts to reprimand or scold him; he will not follow such a suggestion. An SLI can listen calmly (sometimes even with a smile) to all of this and then as if nothing were the matter he can continue the same way as before. But this does not mean that the suggestion did not hurt the SLI or that he did not take notice of it.

With apparent coolness and impenetrability, the SLI shields his reactions to any emotional pressure. The more strongly others place pressure on the SLI, the less he expresses his emotions.

No matter how the SLI reacts to the charges brought up against him, one should not attempt to draw him from his naturally un-showy and sincere stability for the purpose to verifying his feelings, which the SLI will experience painfully. This is a situation where the SLI is absolutely not interested to reveal his vulnerability, which would make him feel very exposed. Originally benevolent and peaceful, the SLI suffers from having caused offence, but any attempt to find out the degree of his emotional receptivity agitates him very deeply as exceptional wickedness since it is experienced as penetration of the SLI’s most private self with the meanest intentions. (“I do not love it when people climb into my soul, and I do not love it when into it they spit” (Vysotskiy).)

Sensual experiences are sacred for the SLI; he shows his feelings in this way. The SLI will usually prefer to appear detached, and this is how he will allow someone to reveal his true feelings.

Until the end the SLI will try to appear restrained, calm, and in charge of the situation, with a calm smile, which he puts forth in order not to reveal his present experiences. Any attempt to break the SLI’s “armor” with intensive emotional action (that is, by hysterics and by scandals) is received by the SLI as the worst kind of monstrous act. And the SLI reacts to this respectively - by terrible emotional explosion, which is very draining to him and which he will later regret.

The question can arise: how can man, totally protecting his feelings and his sincere rest, make it possible for himself to act emotionally? How can he regulate the feelings of other people, and to force them to suffer because of this, while observing their sufferings with calculated calmness?

This situation arises when a person appears next to the SLI who is psychologically incompatible with him. But since the SLI is subconsciously oriented to the flexible emotionalism of its dual the IEE, the SLI sees nothing wrong with adapting of partner under its emotional threshold. Receiving each partner as his dual, the SLI naturally assumes that any person is capable of adapting to his emotions without difficulty.

After multiple collisions with reality, the SLI begins to understand that he has been mistaken, and this is a painful thing to learn. Because of this disappointment the SLI prefers comfortable solitude to uncomfortable contact. And the theme of solitude that disturbs the SLI (just as it disturbs his dual the IEE) is the consequence of this. Disappointed and disillusioned, the SLI attempts to accept his solitude positively, trying to find it pleasant. (This quality is also characteristic of his dual the IEE.)

Super-id block
---------------------

5th Function - Ne Extraverted intuition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

No matter how much the SLI tries to develop his intuition and ability to foresee things, certain difficulties always arise in this respect for him. For example, sometimes the SLI finally understands something about the nature of another person only after he has quarreled with him and relations have come to a breaking point, and this is not to mention the understanding of his own nature that typically remains an incomprehensible riddle for the SLI, despite the fact that the SLI frequently engages in introspection.

The SLI frequently evaluates the possibilities of a person through an ethical evaluation ("… he is a good person, capable of achieving much").

The SLI greatly respects the ability to accurately and laconically describe traits and qualities of any person, just as he admires and respects the ability to predict the development of interrelations.

Any science or scientific method that expands the boundaries of human capabilities evokes much interest and respect in the SLI.

The SLI is very much attentive and considerate of the opinions of people who know how to find ways out of very difficult situations. He listens with pleasure to their recommendations and advice on how to behave oneself, how to act and what to do in an unexpected situation or in the case of danger.

Sometimes the SLI becomes convinced or persuaded by anomalous phenomena and events. Sometimes the SLI can with all seriousness discuss a certain unusual and anomalous event or thing which supposedly exists in his home. He may study and try to memorize "rules" of defense from "energy vampires" like a multiplication table, and then in all seriousness try to teach them to others.

The SLI with respect refers to people who have unusual and supernatual abilities. He may try to develop the same abilities in himself.

The SLI is very much persuaded and convinced by authoritative people. A person who has achieved success, public acknowledgement and acclaim, inspires deep respect in him. If his own work is not properly recognized by its merit, the SLI reacts very painfully to this, because he is in the habit of comparing his own achievements with successes and attainments of other people. In a conversation, the SLI may mention and make references to his own titles and merits. He generally disapproves of "leveling" and equalization of people in any respect - in his opinion, each individual much have have his own personal approach.

The SLI is in need of individuals who are capable of discovering and evaluating his own creative abilities, unlocking and opening up his talents, and inspiring him to bring them to fruition.

The SLI has much respect for people who know how to quickly grasp the essence of events or phenomena and share this understanding with others.

Dislikes it when his own abilities and possibilities are being criticized - this evokes internal protest in him, since he usually tries to all-inclusively develop and evolve his own talents. With seriousness engages in self-education and self-improvement.

Examples of other people's successes and achievements are convincing to a SLI only in a from that is presented by his dual, the IEE. Only the IEE is able to inspire and motivate the SLI, suggesting and showing to him original, unique, and intriguing idea, captivating the SLI by new, unexplored possibilities.

6th Function - Fi Introverted ethics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The SLI is always glad to have an opportunity to establish kind, friendly relations. He's not against expanding his circle of acquaintances and friends. Glad when he has a chance to do some service for his friends. He likes it when others turn to him for help and advice. Moreover, the SLI does not impose his services and help - he simply provides it, without extra words. He considers that extending his services and help is the best way to make friends.

For example, if the SLI makes acquaintance with a woman, coming over to her place he might try to fix something, becoming so absorbed by this activity that he seemingly loses sight of the purpose of the visit. From this point on, two possible directions of development of events can be traced: a psychologically incompatible woman will feel awkward and inconvenienced by this, try to distract him, to bring something to eat and drink, etc. This will be a serious strategic mistake from her side, since the SLI will perceive this as a willful effort to determine the course of relations. It will seem to the SLI that she is too focused on him, and that his female companion is hurrying and moving things along too quickly to close the distance. In this case, the SLI immediately feels psychological discomfort, begins to lose interest in his female friend, and next he will try to "change the scenery".

A psychologically compatible woman will act completely differently: she will only encourage his enthusiasm and bring him everything else from her house that needs to get fixed (perhaps, this person has come over precisely for this?). Moreover, she will occupy him by work until the SLI himself says that he needs to rest and promise that he will fix everything else during his next visit.

Here, the situation happens exactly the way it's needed to his dual, the ENFp - that is, the time of the visit has been spent on some practical benefit for the household, and, in addition, some positive prospects appeared for the near future, and relations are developing in such a way that the distance isn't being closed too quickly. For the IEE this is very important, because it is important for the SLI. The IEE builds his relationships as if outside of such concept as distance, because he subconsciously feels that this is most convenient and comfortable for his SLI friend.

The SLI is indeed very much inconvenienced by relations with clearly and rigidly set distance, because a strictly defined distance presupposes certain restrictions of behavior, some ethical boundaries and firm obligations. Where there are boundaries, restrictions, and limitations, the SLI doesn't feel himself too well. He feels himself being deprived of the opportunity to choose the nature of the development of relations in each specific and distinct situation. For example, the SLI, being oriented at the flexible ethics of the IEE, assumes that when he is told "you and I can be good friends" - this should be understood as a hidden hint that "we could become physically, emotionally, and spiritually close companions". But when, following through with "being friends" his partner keeps him at a friendly distance, the SLI feels himself perplexed. Yet, on the other side, if "things are called their names", the SLI starts to feel uncomfortable and awkward, and a result of this experiences psychological discomfort.

SLIs dislikes very much when intimate things are being talked about directly - this is almost like a sacrilege to him. Therefore, the IEE speaks of intimate relations by the way of hints and insinuations, in a veiled and concealed form. On the inside, SLIs are quite squeamish and sensitive towards any straightforward banality.

The SLI also dislikes when "clarity" is introduced into a relationship, when it gets clearly defined. He dislikes clear-cut outlining and assignments of rights and responsibilities. All the time he tries to blur the boundaries of what is permissible, change the distance in relations, and make it be independent from each person's rights and obligations. ("How can there be any obligations? If I feel myself good with someone, I will do everything for them ...")

If the SLI feels bad being around someone, he leaves the situation with the same ease as if he was leaving a room - he simply turns around and departs, not saying anything about his reasons or to where he is leaving. He may reappear again, but not too soon and exactly when he is not wanted. In this case the SLI may feel confused why he isn't being received well and treated as before. Has he done something wrong? - He simply took a break from the emotional discomfort to return with new energies and strengths to his loved person. That is took a very long time for him to renew and reconstitute his emotional forces - this is his personal matter that doesn't affect others in any shape or form, and concerns only his subjective inner experience. (Of course, within the framework of "emotional regeneration" the SLI may develop relations with several partners at the same time and sequentially alternate them.)

As has been mentioned before, the SLI greatly values the harmony and wholesomeness of his inner subjective experiences, just as he values emotional agreement, amity, and comfort, but it is exactly for this reasons that his personal relationships don't always develop easily and smoothly.

Least bit of problems are caused to the SLI by firmly set friendly relations - for friends the SLI will always find time and the wish to do something. Friendship, in his understanding, are voluntary and reciprocal relations.

SLI's relationship with his or her own children are usually good. SLIs love their children and their grandchildren. In general, they easily find contact points with kids. (SLIs typically make for great mentors and teachers.)

Problems begin when a notion of duty, debt, or responsibility is introduced into his relations. The SLI will never be obligated or obliged by anything to anyone. He will visit his relatives only when he wants to be with them, else any contact with them won't bring him any satisfaction. The SLI tries to avoid any relations that are completely based on responsibilities and obligations. The "visits of politeness" to the relatives, where he will have to listen to their lecturing, complaints, and detailed reports about poor health, for SLI is sheer torture.

The SLI cannot stand moralizing and lectures. For him it's easier to "become good" when he is already considered to be so.

He doesn't allow for other people to "punish" him. Responds well with kindness only when he feels that others sincerely like and welcome him. Does not permit any attempts to re-educate himself - in such cases the SLI distances immediately and becomes closed off.

Inclined to compassion and sympathy. Not demonstrative of his antipathies and sympathies (only that he may openly demonstrate his wishes).

Does not boast about and broadcast his merits and virtues.

Tries not to have anything in common with ungrateful people.

Dislikes asking or pleading for anything - he can achieve what he wants without making requests.

The SLI fully and unconditionally trusts the partner with whom he is on good terms, with whom he feels pleasant and calm, and even allows this person some frivolities in his behavior. However, around a person with whom he has little reciprocal understanding, he doesn't trust and becomes jealous on the slightest occasion.

The SLI considers himself to be too trusting, and assumes that he can easily be deceived or tricked. For this reason, he doesn't allow too many people to get close with him.

Close distance appears for him in relations that are "beyond distance" - on the basis of very sensitive, flexible, and mobile ethics of relations (Fi), which is exactly characteristic of his dual the IEE. SLI's relationships with representatives of other sociotypes develop problematically and quite difficultly.

Id block
-----------------

7th Function - Se Extraverted sensing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ISTp is able to put strong pressure on other people, while never using a commanding tone. In situations when it is necessary for the SLI to subordinate others to his will, he does this by taking action on his sensing of sensations (Si) – the SLI begins to express whole "range" of unpleasant sensations: impatience, agonizing desire, irritation, suffering, offence, hostility. As a result of such displays, much sensory discomfort is created, which painfully acts on other people whose "sensing of sensations" is located on the vulnerable or subconsciously regulated positions.

Applying this method, the SLI achieves fulfillment of many of his desires and requirements with relative ease. This is also the method the SLI employs in order to drastically reduce the distance with his eternally slippery dual the ENFp (IEE).

As a rule, ISTps don't know about the force of their volitional effect. They do not recognize or realize it. Frequently the SLIs tend to view themselves as a kind of soft, amiable, and reasonable people. They do not always understand why other people so quickly yield to their wishes. The SLI usually interprets these "concessions" as due to "weakness of human nature" or the person having compatible wishe and goals.

From his end, the SLI carefully watches that no volitional pressure would be applied to him, but these observations happen for him unconsciously.

Any time another person attempts to exert pressure on the ISTp, the ISTp begins to experience discomforting feelings: fear, stress, agitation, and irritation. Next, the SLI tries to rid himself of these discomforting sensations as quickly as possible, and thus the SLI seeks to resolve the situations by the simplest and most accessible to him way - he simply turns away and leaves, departs without saying anything, without answering any questions. It is impossible to hold him back and make him stay - the SLI does not return back under volitional pressuring. (If this happens during a phone call, the SLI can interrupt the conversation and turn off his phone, and in addition leave his house so that nobody could find him for certain.)

Any attempts to deprive the ISTp of the possibility of leaving the situations prove to be useless - like a partisan fighter, the SLI will endure any tests and difficulties, but he will not subject himself to pressure and will not display his weakness. (In a conflict situation, the SLI may create an appearance of concession, but this is only a tactical trick.)

Like any representative of 4th Delta quadra, the SLI greatly values his internal freedom and independence, and he won't allow anyone to transgress upon it: the SLI does not grow timid before his superiors, he does not subordinate himself to a commanding tone and does not react to commands - in any situation the SLI acts only at his own discretion.

Attaining any favors or concession from the SLI is only possible if he is asked in a soft yet persistent way. Sometimes hints are sufficient. But one cannot expect anything from straightforward volitional pressuring.

8th Function - Ti Introverted logic
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In situations of collisions of opinions it is very important for the SLI to have the last word. It is very important that his point of view is acknowledged. (aspects of "volitional sensing" and "logic of relationships" are sometimes set in operation simultaneously, since they are located in same block) Often the SLI argues not out of consideration of searching for truth, but of the tendency to impose his point of view, or out of a desire to show himself to not be more foolish than others. As a general rule, the less intelligent the SLI - the greater self-assurance he demonstrates in a conflict.

It may happen that the SLI uses clearly inadmissible methods in a dispute: he may refer to some little-known, possibly fictitious authorities, or cite some doubtful facts from questionable sources. And it is characteristic of the SLI to always insist on the incontestability of his “reason”.

Arguing with an SLI doesn't always give intellectual enjoyment to his conversation partners. In view of SLI's own weak intuition, he, as a rule, does not voice his own original thoughts on the topic. Therefore, the entire conversation is often reduced to sometimes inappropriate quoting, which only leads away from the topic at hand; furthermore, feeling like he is losing the initiative in an argument, the SLI begins to either pressure others, or gets nervous and irritated - either reaction is rather unpleasant to observe.

The SLI won't miss a chance to demonstrate his knowledge in the most varied subjects, moreover, he doesn't feel like he needs to preliminary prepare for this. His interests are actually quite extensive, but due to this broadness the SLI often has only superficial knowledge of many things. Therefore, each time when the SLI is allowed an opportunity to show he is an expert on a subject, he will take this opportunity without a moment's hesitation and without considering the sense in doing so (according to the principle: “What I see, I speak about.”) The absurdity of his own statements at times does not completely confound and confuse him: the main thing for the SLI in this situation is to produce the impression of an “interesting” collocutor. This impression, first of all, is calculated for its dual the ENFp, who usually receives and treats a person how they present themselves.

Demonstrative argumentation is important to the SLI also because it implies a two-fold psychological sense. From one end - this is the substance of his reasoning, which as it seems he doesn't always heed himself; from another end - there is the sly and significant irony, which he expresses at this moment by his look - and slightly suppressed smile, which has no relation to the essence of his arguments.

It is precisely this important irony that is the main component of SLI’s ethical game. It transports the listener to a completely different plane of relations, making the listener perceive SLI's logical reasonings as only a background, or as occasion for drawing attention. The IEE immediately understands this clearly: with his splendid ethical intuition, the IEE understands that the point of the conversation is not the matter that was discussed; for the SLI this is only an excuse to have some personal contact and a method to draw attention to himself and to hold it.

On the background of such "logic" the IEE feels reassured that he can openly speak on any topic, and not risk being outdone or exposed on logical contradictions. The IEE recognizes that none will carefully listen to the logical meaning here, since this is a different type of game to which logic has no relation.

The demonstrative logic of SLI is an important component of his “ethical game,” in the process of which occurs his dualization with the IEE. By this we can explain SLI’s striving to produce a favorable impression on the aspect of logic. To SLI it is very important to never "lose face" and lose his prestige before an audience, since the IEE does not sympathize with people who have lost. Furthermore, the SLI, being subconsciously oriented at surface and changeable interest levels of the IEE, knows how difficult it is to get IEE’s attention and how difficult it will be to keep it.

And nevertheless, it would be erroneous to assert that the demonstrative reasonableness of the SLI is always and in every case a kind of posing and a trick. Certainly not! There are indeed some aspects, which actually occupy their attention. And analyzing them, the SLI no longer poses demonstratively. This goes for the topics of depictive art, for example, where almost no one can compare with SLIs in the skill to give the comparative analysis of color range or the composition of one or another artist.

The characteristics of sensations is the richest topic for SLI’s logic. The SLI can perceive deepest philosophical sense in a composition of an arrangement of color and tones. For example, any of Andrey Tarkovsky's films in the aesthetical plan is a model of SLI philosophy. Here is the strictly symmetrical construction of sequence, and its coordination in the form of triptych (three-part composition), and the interplay of colors and tones, and the game of different flat planes; here are the spacial and texture effects - that one can almost feel them by touch; here is the game of lights and shadows, and the game of sounds - the symbolism of sound, the symbolism of sensations. And this entire sensory symbolism is full of deep content and philosophical sense. Expressed through these sensory symbols are the deepest social, psychological, ethical and philosophical aspects which are then examined.

With the aid of logical symbols, the SLI expresses the world of his finest sensations and the state of his deepest experiences. This “sensory symbolism,” in turn, fills SLI's subjective sensations with value and sense, and makes them accessible to the understanding of people who surround the SLI. 