Socioscope ILI
===================

Intuitive Logical Introtim (ILI, Balzac)
----------------------------------------

   This won't end well ...

   This won't end well  then it is hardly worth beginning. If we expect
   the worst in advance, then any other outcome will be a gain.

   Life What is life? People are born, grow up, live, meet, work, die.
   All of this is the fuss of fusses and various fuss

   There was a time when you didn't exist, and soon again it will be.
   Only time is eternal. It generates everything within itself, and it
   destroys everything.

   Everything will pass And you, as well

There live such people in the world, who insistently want to be a little
on the sidelines of life that passes by them. Deliberate calmness,
restraint, accurate non-hurried movements, measured pace of life,
calmness, calmness, calmness This is the ILI.

Everything flows, everything changes. But he knows how. Reading a book,
he knows what will be written after a few lines. Watching a movie for
the first time, he can predict how it will end. But most likely he won't
say anything.

Sometimes he even sees images of what will occur in several seconds or
minutes or what lies ahead beyond a turn on a completely unfamiliar
street. But again, he will most likely keep silent.

And if he says something, it will be something like: "Nothing good will
come out of this." And unfortunately, he is almost always right. It's
not that he doesn't want to talk of optimistic forecasts, but it seems
that he does not see them. Indeed, after all everything will pass, so
what is there to hope for?



All comes to those who know how to wait
---------------------------------------

Now, it's time to describe the intuitive- the logical intro-faiththose,
to [sirech] ILI. Behind the appearance of impenetrable calmness is
hidden the thin, pensive, sensitive soul. It lives in another time, on
its personal rhythm. It seems that it can govern its flow, slow down or
accelerate its motion. Applying almost no efforts for this, it manages
to not be late anywhere. Moreover, even if it decides to be late for a
meeting, nevertheless it will hardly turn out to be late. The only
exception - if this encounter is in no way necessary to it, but even
then it arrives late on the same time interval, which does not change in
the course of its entire life.

The concept of fuss is not compatible with it. Never hurrying, it still
manages to have time to do everything planned. It very much loves to
reason on the themes connected in the course of time, on changes (in
politics, in people's lives, in the weather): Soon it will be autumn,
How quickly life passes, it seems only yesterday was the first call,
and now final, "After twenty minutes will be the half-eighth.



If I say so, it means that it will be
-------------------------------------

Strong intuition enables it to move away to the side when it begins to
smell of fried oil, hence it rarely falls into trouble.

Do you know the difference between the clever person and the wise? The
clever can always cope with trouble, but the wise - will simply not fall
into it.

It has the strongest scent to everything which can become unsafe. It
relates cautiously to any undertakings, it is critically disposed to the
forecasts of apropos rosy prospects; will masterly pour out a tub of
cold water on the enthusiast. It always warns others of the possible
troubles and failures on their way. And most offensive of all, it almost
always happens to be right!

He knows the time required for one action or another, taking into
account initial rockings, unplanned changes and failures. Moreover, it
can fairly accurately predict how it can end. The latter fact causes it
to be sometimes lazy to act (and who likes to read detective stories, if
their outcome is known in advance).



But you still exist?
--------------------

With the unfavorable psychological situation in the environment ILI it
has a serious danger to leave into itself, into its dreams, into the
invented world of whimsical fantasy, having completely removed from the
needs of real life. It will become silent, locked and irresolute,
there will be the increased interest in all predictions of Doomsday and
the like. Benevolent attempt to reach the roots of this interest leads
finally to the fact that takes out its latent desire at least this all
it ended to the white light, and it is faster.

But enough of the sad. ILI knows not only how to resignedly control the
passing of time. It finely understands technology, work and designation
of various mechanisms. It relates to technology as to the living being.

It especially likes everything which works from the socket. ILI rapidly
and easily it learns to examine electrical and electronic circuits, that
also where it is necessary to include and where the transistor has the
third phase. It can independently manage the simple breakdown in the
television set or coffee mill and will then walk away proud and with
dignity tell all fallen in the moment at hand, that it is now convenient
to grind coffee. If it hears the answer: Oh, it is fine! , then simply
beams. Moreover, if they manage without it the following time in the
similar situation of a breakdown it will take serious offense . Well, it
is pleasant to this person to repair [zhelezyaki] - so do not deprive
it of this pleasure!

Special love of ILI - the computer. And this love is mutual. In it it
works more rapidly, and it breaks less often. There are no precise data,
of course, as yet, but is created impression, that at least fourth of
all [stuchashchikh] on the keyboard and good half of programmer- systems
analysts belong to this type. In order in the month to learn
professionally to work on any iron, ILI only free access to the latter
is necessary. And then it begins: You work on [Paskakale]? or I at
long last [apgreydil] my lout changed [materiyku].

In my future (if it will be) I do not think of myself without the
machine

Not less ardently ILI can love automobiles. Many representatives of this
type carefully cherish dream about its machine from a sufficiently early
age. The prestigious automobile for ILI is the symbol of vital success,
and dream of it - by unconscious index of the fact that it is ready to
place high purposes to itself and to attain them.

In my future (if it will be) I do not think of myself without the
machine. Even if they find another means of transportation, I will
nevertheless exert all efforts in order to possess machine.
Specifically, here I to smog to be reflected itself. Men indeed of also
our kind mechanism, therefore, we are similar. This will be not the
garish, but spectacular on closer examination automobile, prepared some
small, but with the old traditions firm, very individual. It will be
always pure (inside and outside), with the powerful stereo-system: I
love a good sound, its different combinations, synthesis, qualitative
reproduction.



The more quietly you proceed - the further you will be
------------------------------------------------------

In ILI the sufficiently interesting method of achievement of the
objective. Someone from all forces rows to it, someone attempts to nail
to the strange large steamship, someone raises ferro-concrete bridge.
The flow, which auto will carry out it to the cherished purpose, the
very same finds, and it should only be held in it and follow so that its
ship it would not throw to the underwater stones, it did not tighten
into the whirlpool, and also that would not become thin its bottom. Its
efforts, according to the large calculation, are directed toward that in
order to hold its floating craft in running order and in the correct
course.

And still: he never forgets, that all rivers sooner or later, but fall
never in the sea on the name nothing and. Memento of mori - and it
with the light heart rejects the tiresome career, the senseless run
after the variable human glory, from the authority and dignity, if this
can deprive its possibility to dream in that loved to armchair- rocker
with the dear book in the hands

In the school or in the institute it most likely quiet [troechnik] or
[nechestolyubivyy] [khoroshist]. Why to fuss, to be pulled to the first
places, if in gold [seredinke] it is much calmer and more comfortable?
For higher education it greatly does not strive. After the end of
studies it hardly has the problems with job placement: usually ILI is
selected reliable profession, it easily finds the well paid place and
confident- leisurely it rises along the official stairs. It will hardly
hammer together large state, but it will always be able to ensure to
itself with its close one worthy life. At the same time it is
sufficiently close-fisted, not love to expend money.



[Pospeshay] slowly
------------------

ILI especially individual, fitted out to its health measured off rhythm
of labor and rest erects for itself. It can sit up to three hours of
night at the display or on the vacations will arise each morning into
[polchetvertogo] to go on fishing. If it this itself wants. But if it
wants to sleep, then quietly it will fall asleep - at a lesson, in the
streetcar, at the noisy picnic, on military council.

It almost cannot be forced to do what he does not want. In its quiet,
calm unwillingness strange will simply sinks, it slips without the
cohesion with its opposition, which completely is not. It will quietly
move aside, without giving to opponent to enter with itself into the
contact. And however be beaten - where you will sit down on it, there
and you will descend. But this only when he - because of the visible by
them one likely danger or because of its own laziness - does not want to
make that the fact that they request it. In all remaining cases it
voluntarily and willingly returns control of itself into the strange
hands (leaving after itself the right of veto). I willingly follow
someone else's will, if it is reasonable

Moreover, increased demands impress it, especially when it is presented
in the polite, human form and if in this case protect its own
interests. In other people it is greatly drawn to qualities such as
force, aggressiveness, the tendency to never surrender in the struggle
against difficulties, and the inextinguishable desire to attain one's
purpose. In the environment of such people he acquires confidence both
in itself and in its future, it is disclosed towards life. Its mission
in life it sometimes sees as warning of people about the likely dangers
on their way in time. The same threat which he sees for himself is to
fall on a Wednesday, where uncontrollable emotions reign.



Emotions are gone
-----------------

In its opinion, people [emotsionalyat] only when they cannot attain
the force of logical reasons. All questions must be solved quietly and
structurally - so what with here screams and scandals? Perhaps by
[orom] it is possible to convince interlocutor? Perhaps the force of
voice - argument in the civilized dispute?

ILI always tries to avoid (from the word escape) the situations, where
conversations on the raised tones are possible , emotional dismantlings,
ideological visits. Sometimes this position, a little [strausinaya],
leads to an even larger incandescence of the emotions splashed out to
it. Why does he cry?

This aversion extends even to the ordinary cry (of pain, happiness,
surprise, etc.). A remote into the subtitle puzzled- frightened question
was sounded in the circus from one young representative of this type,
when to the arena red clown jumped out with the deafening laughter.

ILI's sense of humor is sufficiently peculiar: intellectual, thinned,
but with the small attack on cemetery theme. For example, in the
miniatures Of [zhvanetskogo] are frequent the jokes on this theme.

People of this type are sufficiently erudite, although they do not boast
of their knowledge. They have independent views and judgments about all
events proceeding around, and about the standards and rules accepted in
society T. p. From the participation in the intelligent debate on the
free theme ILI as its collocutors, obtain the present pleasure. Its
judgments are characterized by state of being unchained, globality,
completeness and good attack of wisdom. By the way, it is confident,
that in its opinion finds expression not so much its own, subjective
view on the thing, as objective, accumulated by humanity during all
previous centuries.



Everyone must obey the laws, accepted in society
------------------------------------------------

The basic political credo of this type is a voluntary submission to all
those laws (written and unwritten), which are accepted in the society.
If someone they do not please themselves - if you please, let they
change by legal methods, while if this is not obtained - let they are
adapted or leave into other country. Moreover the authority of unwritten
laws (i.e., the blessed by centuries traditions) for ILI stands higher
than any codes. It sufficiently indifferently relates to its exterior
view and, given to itself, it can barely follow itself. However, if for
it one must leave into the society, thus it brings itself into order,
trying to appear in the manner that this accepted: [nevyzyvayushche],
accurately, is proper, and if means be sufficient - that it is stylish.

ILI it is internally deeply democratic with entire external
[otstranennosti], it does not divide people according to national,
racial, political, religious or other other sign.

The main thing so that the man would be good.

In its policy draws the possibility to influence moral improvement or
the economic development of society; it [neideologichen]. Yes, he will
say that its country must be loved and to be proud of it, but also it
will add: if there is for which. If, for example, it and nationalist,
then very moderated.

It is peaceful, it attempts not to enter into the conflicts, it calms
down fighters. It has the very interesting method of the fight:

I do not get involved in in the fights on the private venture, I try to
avoid them. If position becomes entirely hopeless, then it is necessary
to fight. But I for some reason fear, that I can damage the health of
rival; therefore will press it so that it it will turn blue, and I will
wait, until itself asks.

It does not respect unprincipled people, those, who always adhere to
singularly accurate line, and he manages to be turned havoc with her
turnings to one hundred eighty degrees. It does not believe to people,
which change the color of flag, provided to not lose the first place in
the column. It is not inclined to create to itself idols.

It does not love idlers; it considers labor as the necessary condition
of a correct life. Labor for ILI is more likely right, than
responsibility. Therefore it does not hesitate from any work, even the
dirtiest. By its hands he wants to build the world in which it will be
good to it and its close ones.

Out of entire that mention above there are the things, which please me



Functional description
----------------------

First function: the intuition of the time

Excellent understanding of the motion of time and possible course of
events. Foresight of the future. Aggravated presentiment of dangers.
Strong intuition. Skill to do everything in time and to wait for its.
Sluggishness, the complete absence of fussiness, the skill to not meddle
in trouble. Second function: the business logic

Ability to find effective methods of fulfilling work. Tendency towards
concrete labor. Tendency to adhere to the most effective methods. Love
for the technology, the skill to work with various mechanisms. It
prefers work with the visible result. [Masterovitost], work by hands.
Organism presents technology true to life. Third function: [sensorika]
of the sensations

The aspiration to appear at the proper level in public, to bring its
exterior view into correspondence with the conventional standards.
Sometimes understanding the fact that it will not know how to ensure its
personal comfort with its own efforts. Uncertainty in correspondence of
its appearance to the requirements of those surrounding. Affected
elegance, the internal desire to live more simply. Any estimation of
its appearance is unpleasant. Fourth function: the ethics of the
emotions

Categorical aversion of emotional pressure. Fear before the
manifestation of the emotional impetuosity of those surrounding. The
tendency to avoid situations where heightened emotionalism is
manifested. The unrealizable desire to live in the flat merry
situations, where there are no sharp drops in the emotions. Restraint,
demonstrative withdrawal from the cries and scandals. It completely
ignores the emotionally painted requirements for itself. Fifth function:
volitional [sensorika]

The unconscious its own weakness in everything, concerning volitional
pulse, insistence and purposefulness. Latent strong desire to follow
another's reasonable will. Sympathies to strong and volitional people.
Skill to be transparent for the undesirable external pressure.
Reduction in the vital tone (up to the complete apathy) in the absence
of external organizing and guiding force. Sixth function: the ethics of
the relations

Subconsious confidence in the importance of its own desires for those
surrounding. The desire to live in the environment of humane and
democratic people who can understand its interests. Latent faith in the
priorities of moral values before the material. Rather rough politeness,
ethical passiveness, thrust to the honest and strong relations. Seventh
function: the intuition of the possibilities

Unshakable confidence in the correctness of its understanding of the
proceeding events. Strong criticality of all innovations. Subconsious
tendency to track arising new possibilities. Skill to explain to other
people the essence of their problems. Deep confidence in the objectivity
of its opinion, a philosophical turn of mind. Eighth function: the logic
of the relationships

Silent persistent tracking of various information. Developed obscure
logic. Skill to imperceptibly help people cope with their logical
difficulties. Skill to give the explanation of the most complex
(scientific) problems in the form accessible for other people.
Erudition, cautious maneuverable logic
